I was born and raised in a small town on Long Island in New York. I live there today with my husband and three wonderful children. I work as an assistant principal in the same school district my children attend. I live a beautiful life there, taking advantage of the water and often enjoying time out on the boat.

One day in September 2015, I felt a lump in my left breast. I am not an alarmist, but I am also very educated and aware of what that could mean. I had an appointment scheduled in a month with my OB/GYN, so at first, I thought I would wait and talk to my doctor about it then. I had a mammogram just six months prior, so I figured that it was nothing. But I did some online research and decided that to be safe, I should schedule something sooner.

I have known my doctor for years, since she delivered my children. During my exam, she agreed that something wasn’t right and walked me directly over to the radiology department. I stayed for the results. The images were concerning, so it was recommended that I see a surgeon for a biopsy.

Since I didn’t know any surgeons, I was referred to one. I saw the surgeon the very next day and got a needle guided biopsy. I was very glad that I was able to get everything done so quickly. Then I had to wait a couple days for results. I continued to work, and my job was very understanding. A couple days later, while I was at work, I the doctor’s office called. The surgeon told me that “it was malignant.” He didn’t use the word cancer, so I asked him if it was cancer, and he said it was.

I felt my world spinning. I barely remember the rest of the phone call. My mind was going a mile a minute. I was shocked that it was cancer. We have no family history of cancer. The diagnosis hit me hard.

I went in the very next week to meet with the surgeon. He did an MRI on both of my breasts. At the appointment, he talked to me a little about next steps and a course of action. Then a few days later, the results came back that showed another lump in the left breast and one in the right. Days turned into weeks, as I had more MRIs and biopsies. This time was a blur as I went from one appointment to another and waited for results.

My husband and I met with an oncologist that the surgeon referred us to within his same practice. The oncologist was a general oncologist and saw patients with a wide range of cancer. The surgeon who completed my testing was a general surgeon and not a surgical oncologist. After meeting with both of them, I just felt like I wanted doctors who specialized in cancer and specifically breast cancer.

I started doing some research about other options. Then I called my friend who was a cancer survivor. She had done all her treatment at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). She was so enthusiastic about the treatment she received and encouraged me to check CTCA® out. That night I went on the CTCA website. There was a chat feature, and before I knew it, I was chatting with someone from CTCA. The very first questions I was asked related to how I was feeling. This was the first time anyone outside my friends and family asked me about my emotions. I realized this was not a typical place, and I gave them my information.

The next day, a representative called and we scheduled my initial evaluation. The representative took care of obtaining my medical records. A week in advance, I received a schedule about who I was seeing and when. I was blown away by the responsiveness and organization.

I came to CTCA with my husband. We stayed at a hotel close by, and we used a shuttle service provided by the hospital. During that time, I met with my entire care team, including my medical oncologist and surgical oncologist. I had tests, blood work and scans, and by the end of the evaluation, I knew the results.

I found out I had stage IIB breast cancer, and my medical oncologist told me I could take some time to decide if I wanted to pursue treatment at CTCA. “Let’s get started right away,” I told her. So I went home, made arrangements and came back the next week.

I had six rounds of chemotherapy. I went back and forth between home and the hospital. What was nice was that while I was home, I still had the support of the doctors and clinicians at CTCA. If any concerns arose, I could call my care nurse at any time. I often called with questions, and I always felt reassured after our call.

After completing my third round of chemotherapy, I met with a plastic surgeon. He was so caring and offered me so much information. I had no idea there were so many options for breast reconstruction. I had multiple meetings with the plastic surgeon, and he spent hours explaining it all, making sure I made the choice best for me. It felt so good to be presented with a wide range of options and to be able to be part of the treatment decision-making process.

In April 2016, I underwent a double mastectomy and tissue flap reconstruction. The tissue flap procedure used tissue from other parts of my body to rebuild the breast shape. I made the decision to use my own body tissue over breast implants. The two procedures were done at the same time, and the surgery was over 15 hours long. I was in the ICU for five days to recover.

I can’t say enough about the amazing team of nurses and doctors who cared for me during that time. The surgical oncologist and plastic surgeon came to see me first thing every morning. The nurses and clinicians were so helpful and caring during my time as an inpatient.  

Throughout my treatment, I received supportive care therapies. The side effects I experienced were quickly managed with the help of the supportive care clinicians. When I experienced a rash, my naturopathic provider offered me a cream. When I suffered from nausea, I began doing acupuncture. I tried Reiki therapy to promote relaxation and help reduce my stress and tension. When my hair began falling out, I went to the salon at the hospital, and the technicians shaved my head and helped me find a wig. It was so wonderful to have the care I needed, with the clinicians working together under one roof.

Since the initial surgery, I have had three plastic surgery revisions. My wounds didn’t heal as I would have liked. I had dead tissue removed, and one side didn’t heal symmetrical to the other. As of May 2017, I am awaiting nipple reconstruction. Once that is healed, CTCA will bring in an expert to tattoo the color onto my nipple.

I’m optimistic about the future. I know I am blessed because I found CTCA. I am always sharing my story about my experience. I can’t say enough good things about CTCA. Some people I talk to can’t believe I traveled from New York to Philadelphia for treatment. I tell them there is no distance I wouldn’t travel for my health and my family’s future. I chose to go the distance, and it was worth every trip.

Today, every moment is emotional, and I cherish each one. My husband and children are the most important people in my life. My child’s spring concert brought me to tears because I knew I was so lucky to be there. Everything means something to me because I know that I used to take things for granted. Health is a valuable asset that you don’t truly appreciate until it’s in jeopardy. My life has a new perspective, and I feel so blessed to have this time with my friends and family.

When I was 55 years old, I began having trouble swallowing occasionally. Initially, I suspected that I may have a hiatal hernia because the pain I was experiencing was similar to the pain my father complained about when he had a hiatal hernia. But I didn’t doing anything about it because I was my mother’s primary caregiver and was focused on setting up a rigorous health procedure for her. Once her care was settled, I called my doctor.

After learning of my pain, my physician also suspected I had a hiatal hernia, or possibly esophageal narrowing. He wanted to know more before recommending treatment, so he referred me to a gastrointestinal specialist at a local clinic for an endoscopy.

After the endoscopy, the gastrointestinal specialist told me and my wife that there was a tumor at the bottom of my esophagus that appeared to be cancerous. He told me I should have blood tests and a CT scan. My blood was drawn that afternoon and I had a CT scan the following day.

On the day I learned of my tumor, my wife started researching treatment options. The diagnosis wasn’t confirmed yet, but she didn’t want to wait. We had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and she wanted to learn more about them.

Soon enough she was on the phone with CTCA discussing my situation with a representative. After that first conversation, I decided that if the cancer diagnosis was confirmed, we were going to CTCA for a second opinion. The next morning, as I was waiting for the results of my CT scan, I was on the phone with a CTCA representative, giving him all of the relevant information he needed so he could get me an appointment quickly if the test was positive.

My diagnosis was confirmed the next day: The tumor was cancerous. My doctor handed me a piece of paper with the name of a doctor to see for additional tests. On my way home, I faxed the results to CTCA. A few days later, I received a call from my representative to set up my appointments.

A few minutes later, I received a call back from my CTCA representative. The doctors had reviewed the scans I’d faxed over and wanted to know how soon I could get there. My original appointment was supposed to be in nine days but now it was less than a week, if I could be there. I said, “I can be there yesterday.”

After my three-day consultation at CTCA, Dr. Shayma Kazmi, my medical oncologist, said that the tumor was about 3 cm and the cancer was at stage IVA. Dr. Kazmi then told me she saw two options for my treatment. I told her I wanted the treatment she thought would be best. 

My first chemotherapy infusion was that day. The next day, I had a feeding tube inserted and was in the hospital for three days. The following week, I started radiation therapy and had a power port inserted for the rest of my intravenous chemotherapy.

The treatment was aggressive and difficult. I had chemotherapy every Monday, plus 25 sessions of radiation for five days a week in two locations on my esophagus. That was followed by three treatments of high-dose chemotherapy over six weeks.

Although I did not experience much nausea or vomiting, I did have dry heaving. It was very painful and led to minor internal tears and bleeding. I was at home when the bleeding occurred, so my care team at CTCA instructed me to go to the local emergency room. I recuperated and was able to continue without any breaks in treatment, but I hope I never have to experience anything like that again.

When I speak with others about CTCA, I often say that there will come a moment during the initial consultation when you will ask yourself, “Is this place for real?” Or you might think, “It sounds too good to be true!” In my experience, it is. CTCA never felt like a hospital to me. Walking down the hallway, feeling terrible, everyone would stop to say hello and ask how I’m doing. No one walks away in a rush—they leave politely. The staff at CTCA is compassionate, and the attention and support they give to caregivers is similar to what they give to patients.

For 18 months following my first treatment, my imaging tests at CTCA showed no visible signs of cancer. At a follow-up visit three months later, a scan showed something on my spine. I had a biopsy taken at the original tumor location and the results were benign. Four weeks later, another scan showed the same spot with no change. Six weeks later, the spot had not grown but there was increased activity. The lesion is located in a region that is dangerous to biopsy, so we proceeded straight to another course of treatment with five rounds of radiation.

The care and treatment I receive at CTCA, the support of my wife and my daughter, and my positive outlook on life will give me the strength to get through this next challenge. I will fight it just as I did during my first treatment.

Today, I feel better than before I was diagnosed. I am enjoying each day. I’ve always believed that even when life is hard, it is still great to be alive. That feeling has only strengthened since being diagnosed with cancer.

In early 2014, I took my doctor’s advice and had a colonoscopy. I’d never had this examination before, and the time had come. After I recovered from the procedure, my doctor showed my husband, Juan, and I an image of my colon. The image had found two polyps. The doctor pointed to the first spot on my colon, assuring us that it was nothing to worry about. Then he pointed to another spot and told us he thought the polyp was suspicious of being cancerous. He had taken a biopsy during the procedure, and the tissue was being analyzed. When the results came back as negative for cancer, we thought that was that. I was in the clear. But life had other plans.

In the meantime, something very strange was happening in our lives. My mother has a friend I also know. Her husband died a few years ago. One day, completely out of the blue, my mother said that this friend wanted me to go to her house. She had something to speak with me about. A few days later, Juan and I went to see her, and she began speaking about how structurally sound her home was. She told us that her health was not that great and she wanted to leave her house to us. I assumed that she meant she would leave it to us in her will—an extremely generous and unexpected gift—but not long after that visit, my mother explained that this friend was giving us money for the taxes on her home. Then we heard she was giving us money for utilities. Then she told us she was moving to another state, her lawyer had all the papers for us to sign, and she handed us the keys.

Months later, I went to my doctor because I was in pain from sciatica. My doctor wanted me to have an MRI so she could confirm the source of the pain. Soon after the imaging test, I received a call. My kidney was enlarged, and there was a blockage next to my ureter. My doctor told me to go to the emergency room for additional testing.

Unexpectedly, I ended up staying at the hospital for three days. I had a stent inserted at my left ureter. Approximately a month later, the urologist replaced the stent and told me to see a gynecologic oncologist. All these recommendations, coupled with just bits and pieces of information, left me confused.

The following week I saw my ob-gyn. She knew that I had fibroids and irregular cycles, and she recommended that I have a hysterectomy. Learning the results of the analysis of tissue removed during the hysterectomy left me and my husband in complete shock. There was cancer in my cervix. What’s more, although the hysterectomy had removed most of the cancer, the tissue just beyond reach of the surgery still contained cancer. Further analysis confirmed the diagnosis as stage III uterine cancer.

My cousin was preparing food for me while I recovered from the hysterectomy. One day, she suggested I call Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). She said they would speak to me any time, day or night, and provide the information I needed in order to make decisions about my care. I took her advice, called and spoke on the phone with an Oncology Information Specialist. Soon, I was seen at the Chicago-area location of CTCA® for an initial consultation.

During my initial evaluation, my gynecologic oncologist recommended radiation and low-dose chemotherapy. “No surgery?” I asked him. He told me surgery was the least preferable option because it could increase my risk of infection and was not the preferred way to decrease the chance of the cancer spreading. I knew after that initial consultation that I would pursue treatment at CTCA.

I underwent about six weeks of radiation accompanied by weekly low-dose chemotherapy. After completing this phase, I recuperated at home for several weeks and then returned once every three weeks for a second chemotherapy regimen.

The first phase of my treatment left me fatigued, and I had to take a nap each day. I did not lose my hair, but the radiation did cause some nausea near the end of treatment. Neither chemotherapy regimen triggered nausea. I lost my hair with the second chemotherapy regimen, including my eyebrows and eyelashes. My husband and I are both ordained pastors, and although we had to take a break from weekly worship services, we were able to continue some limited ministerial work.

The care I received at CTCA still amazes me. I felt genuine concern and empathy. If I was having a meltdown moment, someone was there to hand me a tissue. No one made me feel silly about the questions I had, and my questions were answered. At CTCA, I felt like my doctor cared, and that he takes the time to care. I don’t see him or the members of my care team checking their watches during an appointment with me. That alone is extraordinary to me.

As I mentioned, sometimes life has other plans. My husband wanted to take care of me when I was going through treatment. The house we were given allowed that to happen. Because of the change that gift made in our lives, he was able to retire and be my caregiver. And I can never thank him enough for the care he gave me during this time.

I have completed treatment now and am in recovery. My gynecologic oncologist told me the imaging tests showed no visible signs of cancer. My hair is growing back slowly but surely. Every visit to CTCA is special. We visit with Ricardo in the cafeteria, and he has been so kind and pleasant. We visit with patients and make sure we stay in one another’s lives. As pastors, we developed a relationship with the pastoral care team at CTCA, too.

Juan and I were ordained together years after we met, and our religious life is at the center of our life together. Cancer was something to get rid of. But how that happens, and the way that happens, may be filled with blessings large and small. We see them at CTCA.

Early in January 2014, the snow came down heavily. I was shoveling outside our church, preparing for service, and no one showed up. After pouting about that for a few minutes, I realized how foolish I was behaving. Then during a quiet moment, I heard the voice of God say, “Wait for the miracle.” As a pastor, my mind is always on my faith, and I was eager to see the miracle. Anne was already scheduled to have a colonoscopy, and when the initial cancer scare turned out to be nothing, I thought that was our miracle. But our journey with cancer, and the strengthening of our faith that would come with that journey, was just beginning.

When we were given a house by Anne’s family friend, I was amazed. This gift opened up all kinds of opportunities. We found out that a relative was struggling, and we were able to provide a home for him. At that time, Anne was fine. But then she went to the doctor for sciatica pain, and life snowballed from there.

The doctor at the hospital told Anne that she had cancer. Realizing the severity of her diagnosis, I knew that I was still waiting for a miracle. Soon, we found our way to CTCA.

During our first visits to CTCA, I learned about the history of the hospital, how the founder wanted to create the kind of place he’d wanted when his mother was treated for cancer. I met a woman who told me she had terminal cancer, but she was smiling and happy when she said those words. She was emphatic in her declaration that a person can live with cancer. I’d never heard anyone speak like that before. She explained that while other patients prepared to die, she prepared to live. At CTCA, we encountered love and compassion. Having my wife treated at CTCA was like becoming part of a family, and it still feels that way. I believe the doctors administer care in the way that pastors minister to others: They feel love and care, and they spread that to patients and caregivers.

The house that we were given enabled me to retire so that I could be Anne’s caregiver. I could stay with her at CTCA during her radiation treatment. Our congregation joined a sister church. I met with the pastoral care department during our stay, and I was permitted to preach at the chapel during one of our visits. We met so many patients, more than 50, and I stay in touch with them through monthly phone calls.

CTCA is in our thoughts and prayers. We love telling others about the care my wife received there, about Anne’s experience and how she has come through the other side through the support and expert medical attention she received at CTCA.

In 2011, I started having acid reflux. It was uncomfortable and concerning, so I went to our family doctor for an exam. During the visit, he asked me when I’d last had my prostate-specific antigen (PSA) checked, the routine test many men do to screen for possible signs of prostate cancer. It had been about three years since I’d done this test, so he added it to my visit that day. The results showed I had a PSA score above 20, and my doctor recommended that I have a biopsy. A few days later, I received the news from an oncologist at the same clinic where our regular doctor practices, that the biopsy had tested positive for prostate cancer. I was 60 years old at the time. The diagnosis was devastating. I felt like I’d just been hit with a sledgehammer.

The oncologist recommended that I have my prostate removed. At first I was ready to say yes. Why not just have the prostate removed and get rid of the cancer? That seemed like the most logical idea.

But although I did not want to waste another minute before doing whatever I could, the oncologist recommended taking my time. He suggested that I talk things over with my wife and let him know my decision within a couple of weeks.

After a couple of sleepless nights, thinking things over and praying for guidance, I turned on the television at a late hour, seeking a break from the considerations. A commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) came on, and I was immediately drawn to it. I went to my computer and started reading through the website, learning about all the different services offered at CTCA®. I was intrigued by the fact that patients could choose to include a dietitian and a mind-body therapist on their care team. I was especially interested in the idea of being at a place where services are all under one roof. The next morning, I showed my wife the website, and we decided to call.

I was surprised that the first time I called CTCA, a live person answered the phone. And it wasn’t just that I spoke with a person, it was that she took her time. She listened patiently, took all my necessary information and told me she would get back to me. That same afternoon, she said my insurance was approved and I could schedule a visit if I wanted.

My first visit to CTCA was in early February. Although we live in Illinois, not too far from the facility, my wife and I stayed at CTCA for a week. I had several imaging tests and met with several doctors.

Although the experience was excellent, I was nervous about the cancer. I was worried that it wouldn’t be treatable, or that I wouldn’t agree with the treatment options. But when my radiation oncologist suggested Calypso® radiation for nine weeks along with Lupron® hormone therapy, I felt totally comfortable with the approach.

The radiation was easy to tolerate for the first few weeks. Between that and the hormone therapy shots, which I had every three months, I began having some side effects. I was fatigued, my sense of taste was off, and I gained weight. A naturopathic oncology provider recommended some supplements for the fatigue, which helped. When I experienced a burning sensation during urination as a side effect, my radiation oncologist prescribed a treatment that relieved the pain. I also worked with a dietitian to help control the weight gain. I took advantage of the pastoral care service and greatly appreciated the fact that CTCA offers affordable meals to patients.

Today, I am in recovery and currently have no evidence of disease. I am enjoying spending time with my wife of 35 years, and very grateful that she was there for me during my treatment because I wasn’t always so easy to live with during that time. I loved witnessing my son’s wedding in September 2015. It was wonderful being able to celebrate this occasion with my family. My family is what helped me get through this difficult time.

At 67 years old, I’m feeling great. I go to CTCA every six months for check-ups, and I am very pleased with the care I continue to receive there. Everyone at CTCA is so upbeat, and this attitude helped me get through treatment. It kept me hopeful. In 2016, I was able to attend my Celebrate Life® event and have my name placed on one of the Trees of Life in the hospital. Being a cancer survivor has helped me appreciate life more and express gratitude for those everyday things that are easy to take for granted. And now I am honored to spread that hope to others facing the same journey. There is always a reason to hope.

My story begins with numbness. One day in 2012, three of the fingers in my left hand suddenly lost their feeling. My family—me, my wife, Amber, and our four sons—were living in Arizona at the time, and I made an appointment to see a doctor right away. The feeling was restored by the time my physician could see me, but Amber convinced me to proceed with the appointment. I had an X-ray to see if the spine showed any signs of damage, perhaps from truck driving. When some suspicious spots turned up on the film, my doctor recommended an MRI of my brain.

The MRI set off alarm bells. The image showed lesions in my brain and a large mass at the front. My doctor urged me to see a neurologist immediately. After several tests, the neurologist thought I had multiple sclerosis, or MS, which as I understand, may look similar to cancer.

Wanting to know all of our options, my wife and I decided to seek a second opinion. Again, after several tests, the second neurologist also felt I had MS. Amber and I decided we would follow the doctor’s suggestion that I begin treatment.

Life calmed down for a time. I started taking medication for MS and saw my neurologist regularly. But three years later, things took a turn. We had just moved to Texas because my mother was sick and we wanted to be near her. My prescription needed to be renewed, and the doctor I saw wanted to do a new MRI to make sure that my condition was not progressing. At that time, my scans didn’t show that I had MS, but a possibility of cancer. She wanted to me to see a neurosurgeon in Texas right away. 

During my first visit with the neurosurgeon, Amber and I felt concerned. The doctor confirmed that I had brain cancer and told me that it could be removed with a surgical procedure. I was panicking. I was going to have brain surgery. The thought of this was very scary. I was scared; Amber was scared.

Soon after that, we spoke with some friends at our church about what I was going through. Afterwards, a woman we didn’t know approached us, wanting to tell us her story. She told us how her husband had treated at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). After hearing their experience, Amber and I thought it seemed worth a try.

After contacting CTCA® and being recommended that we travel to the Chicago hospital, Amber and I were hesitant because we did not want to be away from our children or my mother, who was also battling cancer. As time went on and we continued to review my options, we decided to move forward with CTCA after all, because we felt like we would receive the best care there.

Even before my first appointment, my intake physician and neurologist reviewed my scans and called me to request I come in for a biopsy to see if I had MS or cancer. At that point, a biopsy had not been done yet. Still, Amber and I were nervous about being away from our children, but our entire family ended up traveling to Chicago together. After getting the biopsy, my neurologist confirmed I had grade II oligodendroglioma astrocytoma, a form of brain cancer. To our further shock, it turned out that I actually had both cancer and MS. For treatment, he recommended surgery first, followed by chemotherapy and radiation.

I had the surgery in November 2015, and the next day, I felt that my fingers and toes worked just fine. I walked out of the ICU. We spent three days at a hotel, and everything went smoothly. My neurosurgeon was confident that he’d removed the cancer entirely. And in doing so, I felt he’d left behind barely any sign of an operation. The incision was as minimal as possible. My head was shaved a tiny bit, but it was barely noticeable if I combed my hair the right way. And when interacting with me, my neurosurgeon was honest and straightforward, but also warm and caring.

We traveled home and spent Thanksgiving and Christmas in Texas. Then all six of us returned to CTCA for six weeks so I could continue my treatment.

During the next month and a half, I had 42 rounds of chemotherapy and 30 rounds of radiation. Amber home-schools our children, and she continued to do so during this time. But each time I had chemotherapy, one of our sons would come with me for some one-on-one time. Most days, we would have lunch, and then I would play some basketball at the gym. We went on field trip outings. We did whatever was available. I had some nausea, but the medication kept it mild. We followed the advice of my radiation oncologist, who recommended staying as active as I could, rest when I was tired, and follow my normal routines.

I worked with a nutritionist and a naturopathic oncology provider so I could follow a diet that would help me tolerate treatment. Amber enjoyed some trips to the salon and even took our sons for haircuts there. Everyone we met at CTCA was warm and friendly. As Amber likes to point out, we feel we did not see one grumpy person during the entire six weeks. Our children were informed about all I was going through, and my doctors did not hesitate to include them.

When Amber was having a hard time, a Chaplain at CTCA was there for her. The concierge checked on us often. Later, when I had an allergic reaction to some medication back at home, I received the attention I needed right away from CTCA.

Today I am feeling great. I return to CTCA every 90 days for imaging tests and will probably continue with that routine for years to come. But we are back to our regular life—being together, working and everything else. I truly feel that God has performed a miracle in my life—everything happened in His perfect timing. And we had many people praying for my family and me, which I feel also had an impact.

My experience with brain cancer and with CTCA changed me. I believe in the power of not giving up, and I believe that CTCA has the kind of care many of us are looking for. No matter what roadblock we encountered along the way, I feel CTCA was there to help us through.

My journey with breast cancer started in November 2004. I was devastated, scared and numb when I found out I had cancer. At the time, I was 48 and thought that I was healthy.

I immediately started researching doctors and treatments. I found a surgeon near my home outside of Savannah, Georgia to remove the tumor. After the surgery, I consulted with a local oncologist and radiologist. The doctors were so impersonal. They didn't want to listen to a word I was saying. They wanted to put me in one of those cookie-cutter scenarios. There were no other options for me. They just wanted to cut, radiate and do the chemo. I felt with the way they were conducting business, I had to get a second opinion.

I remembered reading about Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in health magazines. I also saw a CTCA® commercial on TV. I liked that they treated the whole person, not just the cancer. At CTCA, I’d have a naturopathic provider, dietitian, psychologist, massage therapy, acupuncture and access to an onsite fitness center—all in addition to conventional treatments I needed to fight cancer and all in one location.

So I called CTCA for information. I spoke with a representative who told me about CTCA hospitals and their overall approach treating breast cancer. The representative also checked to see if my medical insurance provider would allow me to treat at CTCA. Once I learned my insurance OK’d me to go to CTCA, I scheduled a consultation at the CTCA hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Within a week, I was on my way to visit the hospital.

I appreciated that CTCA gathered my mammograms, X-rays and other tests from the doctors’ offices I had been to in Savannah. My tests were sent to the hospital in Tulsa for my CTCA doctors to review before I arrived.

A friend traveled with me to CTCA for my consultation. We flew to Tulsa and were greeted upon our arrival at the airport. A gentleman from the CTCA transportation team picked up our luggage, carried it to a town car and then drove us to the hospital. For my first visit and every trip thereafter to CTCA, I’ve used their transportation service.

My friend and I were wowed by how CTCA took such good care of us. The morning after we arrived, I immediately began to meet with my different doctors and care providers for evaluation. I also had a number of tests done that first day.

At CTCA, my doctors and other care team members listened. They sat down with me and put together a treatment plan that was personalized to me. They gave me options, which they explained and were open to talking about with me. I knew then I made the best decision for me to go through breast cancer treatment at CTCA.

My doctors did their due diligent research. They didn't make quick judgment calls and say, "Just because you have breast cancer, this is what we have to do." Every person is different. Every situation is different. They understood this and truly looked at me as a person—including all aspects of what was going on in my life. After they evaluated me and talked to me in detail, then they recommended the treatments they believed were going to be right for me.

My medical oncologist was absolutely wonderful. She sat down and talked with me, and truly listened to me. Something we discussed for my treatment was that I needed to become post-menopausal. At the time, I was pre-menopausal. Because my cancer was related to hormones, my medical oncologist felt it was critical that we stop the hormone that was manifesting the cancer. So my treatment plan called for me to first have surgery to remove my ovaries. I then received Arimidex®, a hormone therapy drug, in addition to breast cancer radiation.

My radiation oncologist was wonderful, too. We talked in detail about my radiation therapy options, including high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy and MammoSite®. We decided HDR brachytherapy was the best choice for me. My radiation oncologist explained that in comparison to the standard radiation therapy my doctors at home were recommending, HDR brachytherapy would cause less damage to the healthy tissue and organs near my breasts, including my heart and lungs. Also, standard radiation therapy is given five days a week for about six weeks. I received my HDR brachytherapy treatment in a matter of days.

At CTCA, my care team included a dietitian and a naturopathic provider. My dietitian talked to me about what foods were best for me to eat because of the type of cancer I had. For example, she explained that cruciferous vegetables are very important for women fighting breast cancer. She did a great job making me aware of what I needed to eat to keep myself healthy and keep my strength up. My naturopathic provider also recommended a regimen of supplements and liquid herbs, which helped me deal with side effects and have a better quality of life. The natural therapies he prescribed pertained specifically to my needs because of the breast cancer and my medical oncologist’s goal in depleting my hormones.

I also cherished the support I received from the pastoral care team at the hospital. They prayed with me, and became a very good support system and important part of my recovery. Also, Dr. Wakefield, a psychologist at CTCA, talked to me about what I was dealing with and helped me de-stress. He even taught me breathing techniques that allowed me to relax and cope with anxiety and stress.

I think what I really loved about CTCA is that my doctors and other care providers talked to each other. They sat down together and talked about my case to come up with a plan just for me. That was huge, knowing that I didn’t have just one doctor. I had a whole team of doctors and care providers, all of whom knew my situation and what they needed to do for me. And, I appreciated that my doctors were aggressive with my treatment protocol and on top of my care.

I’m also grateful that everything I needed was within the hospital. When I go there for my checkups, I get my CTs, MRIs, mammograms, all of my tests done right there. I have my tests done one day, and the next day, I meet with my medical oncologist and get my results. I can also see my naturopathic provider and my dietitian in the same appointment. I don't have to go from room to room, to room—they all come to me in one room.

Over the years, my gastroenterologist at CTCA has helped to keep my health in check, too. When I’ve returned for checkups, he has performed colonoscopies to remove polyps in my colon. Praise God, the polyps were benign, but we all know polyps can turn into cancer. This is another reason why I love CTCA so much. They leave no stones unturned. They are thorough in my care and proactive to take care of things that could cause problems down the road.

My psychiatrist at CTCA has also played an important roll in my life. Because of my cancer being hormonal, after having my ovaries removed and years of taking the Arimidex, my blood work showed that I had no hormones. This lead to a side effect no one wants to deal with—depression. For about two years, I felt like I wanted to give up on life and run away. I cried every day. My psychiatrist told me to stop running away from help and start running toward help. She convinced me to take some medicine, which helped to turn my life around. I am so happy today. The cloud that hung over my body is gone, and I am in love with life again.

Whenever I return to CTCA, I feel like I get a royal welcoming. It’s like visiting my second family. It’s as though everyone there knows me. And yet, while I've been going to CTCA in Tulsa for a number of years, I am now moving my care to the brand-new CTCA hospital that’s closer to my home—CTCA at Southeastern Regional Medical Center. Because I travel by myself, it's a lot of work. So having a CTCA hospital within a shorter driving distance from my home or a 45-minute flight is going to simplify my life.

But as I decided on my first day at CTCA years ago, no matter where I have to travel, CTCA is always going to be my choice. The care they give me is nothing like I have ever found in facilities in my hometown.

After dealing with cancer, you just never know what the end of the road is going to be, and one thing I'm so thankful for is my family. I don't focus my life on work anymore. My whole life has truly changed. Instead of thinking about materialistic things or work, now I hold on really tight and spend as much time as possible with my parents, brothers, kids and grandbabies.

I look forward to taking road trips to visit my kids and my grandbabies. In 2012, for example, my son and his wife had a new baby and I made a point of driving 17 hours to Missouri to be there when my grandbaby was born. I’m very thankful for my daughter and her children too. Having the opportunity to watch my grandbabies grow up, play and dance, and simply being able to visit them and hold them is amazing. My grandbabies are a very important part of my life. They bring me joy, and it's been a blessing to have that opportunity to be there for them.

In August 2008, I went to see a colorectal doctor for a GI problem I was having. Although it was a separate health issue, I mentioned to my doctor that I had been having a little bit of blood in my stool. I also let him know about my family history of colon cancer. My grandfather passed away from colon cancer, and my mother had an early stage of the disease. At the time, I was only 39. My doctor thought it best that I have a colonoscopy to check and see if there was something wrong.

Days later, I went in for a colonoscopy. I remember my doctor came in the recovery room afterward and told me they had found a mass in my colon. He said that we should schedule surgery to remove it right away.

As soon as possible, I had the colon surgery which was done laparoscopically. Two days later, my doctor came to see me while I was recovering. I was all alone in my hospital room at the time and he told me that I had cancer. It was stage III colon cancer. I asked my doctor to call Raul, my husband, to let him know because I didn’t know how I was going to tell him. He must have known it was going to be hard for me, and he said he had already called Raul to let him know.

Before my doctor left, he said that he was going to send an oncologist up to my room. At that point, I didn’t know what the word “oncologist” meant. Later that evening, the oncologist came up and said, “We’ll take care of you and get you set up for your appointments.” So I went home.

When I returned home from the hospital, I emailed my job to let them know that I had stage III colon cancer. I work in retail, managing a women’s clothing store. I was the insurance carrier in our family, so that freaked me out. I didn’t want to be that bump in the road, having to worry about the bills piling up. I still wanted to contribute. I had consulted with my oncologist and asked if I would be able to work. She said because I was young and strong, I should be able to handle intense chemotherapy and continue to work.

Three and a half weeks after my surgery, I returned to work. I began to see the oncologist for regular appointments.

I remember the first day I had chemo, the facility would not let my husband sit with me while I received my chemo. I was scared and I cried the entire time I was there. At times, I couldn’t get my chemo right away because the chairs were full. I had to wait for another patient to finish with his or her chemo. It was like “musical chemo chairs.” The infusion room was the size of a bedroom. There were eight leather recliners, and one oncology nurse. Our IV polls would get stuck underneath the other patients’ chairs and we would have to ask the other patients to get up so we could go to the one restroom. The TV was never on. The window was never open. One nurse would go from patient to patient administering the medicine. When the medicine would run out, I’d raise my hand to get the attention of the nurse so that she could change my chemo bag so I could get out as soon as possible. I had to carry a bag around in a fanny pack for two days that would administer more drugs through an IV in my chest. I called my chemo bag “Fred,” and I hated Fred. I figured I might as well give it a name because I had to go to the restroom, shower and sleep with the bag. It grossed me out.

Before I would receive the chemo, I would see my oncologist for about 10 to 15 minutes. There were no other care providers to help me—no naturopathic clinicians, nutritionists, etc. I would cry every time I went to chemo.

I felt I never had a day off to recover; there was a lot of runaround. If I needed blood work, I would have to go to a separate lab early in the morning before starting work. On my day off, I’d sit for six to eight hours of chemo. I would get my pump removed two days later on my lunch break, and on Fridays I’d have to stop at the nearby hospital to get a shot before starting my shift. Also, any scans that were needed were done at a separate facility. Much of this was during the holidays when it was extremely busy. Looking back, I can’t believe I did it all. I never took any time off of work. I never called in sick. I was on my feet for up to eight hours at a time for my job, and I worked 40 hours a week. I was so sick, but at work you wouldn’t have known it. I would put on a happy face and try to be my normal self.

I was so sick and fatigued. I couldn’t get anything down. I would stand in the beverage aisle for 30 minutes asking myself, “What do I think I can get down today?” I had such a bad taste in my mouth. I would choose a drink that would overpower the bad taste in my mouth and I’d drink it for a week straight. Then I’d never want to drink it ever again because it made me so sick to my stomach. The neuropathy was so bad; I couldn’t touch anything cold or have ice. I’d get that prickly feeling in my throat as a side effect of the chemo. I would probably only get about a glass full of liquid down a day. That’s it. Otherwise I’d be throwing up.

After about five months, I told Raul I couldn’t do it anymore. I felt I needed more than strictly oncology. I needed other therapies to support me through the chemotherapy.

A month prior to this breakdown, my father saw a Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) commercial. He called CTCA and talked to them, and called me afterwards to let me know about his conversation. He said I should just call them to see what they had to offer. A month later, I called CTCA. I wish I hadn’t waited so long, but I’m glad I made that call. A day or two later, they got me into their newly opened hospital in Goodyear, Arizona, which is about three miles away from my home.

From the minute Raul and I walked into CTCA at Western Regional Medical Center, I felt like the stress was off my shoulders. I remember telling him, “They’re going to take care of me here.”

During my first appointment, I met with Dr. Granick. He said while I was on the right treatment, there was a new drug he wanted to add to it that could potentially help me. I also saw a wonderful therapist from the Mind-Body Medicine Department and a dietitian, who had lots of great ideas to help me get food and liquids down.

The person who really made a huge difference for me from the get-go of my treatment at CTCA was Dr. Shauna Birdsall, a naturopathic doctor. I remember from that first appointment, Shauna asked me if I had been taking any vitamins or other supplements. I told her about the natural remedies for nausea Raul and I had tried unsuccessfully. Shauna said we would try a few natural medicines to see if they helped me feel better. She gave us a recommendation for vitamins and she told Raul he could go across the hallway and get them at the pharmacy. We thought that was awesome that a pharmacy was right there.

Something I also did during my first visit to CTCA was check out the Infusion Center. It was like the sky opened up! I asked if Raul could come in with me and they said, “Sure. You can bring family in here.” Many of the patients were watching the TV. I actually couldn’t wait for my first chemo.

I went home that night and took the vitamins Shauna had recommended. I woke up the next morning with color in my face and more energy. I stopped throwing up and I could get liquids down. It proved to be the relief I needed to feel good enough to go through the chemo. So, that month, I received my chemo at CTCA and completed my cancer treatment.

At CTCA, I finally got the help I needed. I firmly believe that you need those other things—naturopathic medicine, nutrition, mind-body therapy, and such—to get you through cancer treatment. In my heart, I also believe the reason I went through the bad before I found CTCA was so I know what it is like when people are getting the runaround. Now I’m the first to jump in and help others who are dealing with similar situations. I want them to know they are not alone in their fight against cancer and that they shouldn’t have to suffer like I did.

Today my cancer is in remission. I continue to go CTCA for checkups every three months. Each time, I have a number of tests done and I meet with my oncologist at CTCA, Dr. Shildt. (I still see Dr. Granick sometimes, but mostly Dr. Shildt.)

Overall, I feel good. I do have a little neuropathy in my fingertips and toes, but I can deal with it. I’m back to running again, which I love to do. It relieves my stress. I just keep on going. I don’t know any other way. And I don’t live my life in fear of the cancer coming back. I don’t have the mindset to think otherwise.

Our kids are grown and out of the house, but we see them often. Raul and I enjoy the time we spend together all the more. He is my rock. He would take off of work when I needed him, and he would sit and wait while I went through chemo. And he goes to all of my follow-up appointments with me.

My dad also plays a big role in my life. He was there for me. He lives in Tucson, but he would call me every day and ask how I was feeling. And he would come up and see me, and help take care of me.

I can’t stress enough how important strong support is for cancer patients, and their caregivers too.

When I’m not at CTCA for my checkups, I’m there to visit with new patients and share my story, lend an ear and offer my support. I participate in the CTCA Cancer FightersSM program, which is a support group for patients and caregivers. And I love being a part of the CTCA Patient Advisory Council and the Patient-to-Patient Network. It feeds my soul to be able to help others, and to see them get through it.

I do everything I can now to raise awareness of colon cancer. I want you to know that people who are under the age of 40 can get colon cancer. If you have symptoms of colon cancer and if colon cancer runs in your family, please let your doctor know and get a colonoscopy.

There are four other things I also want you to know:

Don’t let a cancer diagnosis scare you. Be strong. You can get through it.Learn all there is to learn about the cancer you have and your treatments. Ask as many questions as you can think of, and don’t think that you’re asking too many.Be that person who goes out there and researches your treatment options. Take the time to do that. Get your family involved. Let them help you. Speak up if you feel something is not right. If you don’t think you’re getting the right treatment, if something doesn’t seem right, check out your options. You don’t have to go through what I went through.

I am feeling great! I go for follow-ups every six months and have a colonoscopy every year to make sure the cancer hasn’t returned.

If cancer taught me one thing, it was to watch what I eat. My husband and I have totally changed our food choices. We ate well before, but now we make even wiser choices. You can really tell when you are eating well and when you’re not. I’m back to running and exercising even more. It took a good year to get my endurance back and to feel almost the way I felt before treatment.

We’ve had many great things happen since I finished treatment. We finished our pool and my backyard is like a paradise. I don’t need to go to a resort to have a good time; I have it in my backyard. We love to have friends and family over so we all can enjoy it. My proudest moment happened when my husband became a U.S. citizen. He was so proud to become a citizen and I was so happy to be there with him. After cancer, I learned to not just enjoy the big things in life, but things like visits with my dad or walks with my dogs. They mean so much to me.

I’ve stay involved with CTCA, mostly through the Patient-to-Patient Network. I get to talk to people who are where I was and I can relate to their fears.

Because I’m susceptible to migraines, I’m often rubbing my head with my hands. When I was 60 years old, I noticed a lump about the size of a small marble on the right side of my neck. Soon after, my daughter saw me rubbing my head, and offered to give me a neck rub to help alleviate headache pain. She felt the lump and was immediately concerned.

I went to a well-respected medical center near my home in Phoenix, Arizona. I’d had cardiac care there previously, and was happy with my treatment at that time. My doctor said the lump was a swollen lymph node that would likely be gone in 30 days. This was in the summer of 2009.

A month later, the lump was still there, and my doctor suggested waiting another month. The lump remained and had grown a little by the time I saw the doctor again a month later. My doctor ordered a CT scan, but the results were inconclusive. He still thought it was nothing to be concerned about. A month or two later, the lump still there, my doctor referred me to an ear, nose, and throat specialist at the same medical center. The doctor felt my neck and said it didn’t seem like anything to be concerned about, but the doctor agreed to schedule an ultrasound. Once again, the results were inconclusive. My daughter and I knew it was larger than it had been before, and she was growing frustrated with the doctors dismissing it as nothing.

We remained concerned, so the doctor referred me to a head and neck surgeon. That doctor performed a fine needle aspiration, a type of biopsy. The pathology results came back benign. After our initial sigh of relief, concern quickly returned. “I don’t have a lump in my neck, you don’t have a lump in your neck,” my daughter said to the specialist, “and this lump wasn’t there six months ago.” He told us that most of the time, lumps like the one I had weren’t cancer, but he would take it out if we wanted him to. I had surgery in January of 2010, which removed part of the lump; it turned out that there were three, not one, with two located under my jaw in a spot that I couldn’t feel by hand. My doctor analyzed one of lumps and finally I had a diagnosis: as we’d feared, I had cancer. Non-Hodgkin lymphoma, to be exact. I had to start chemotherapy right away, as soon as I’d healed from the surgery.

I had four rounds of treatment with rituximab, a monoclonal antibody. After those treatments, my doctor said that there was now enough chemotherapy in my body to finish the job. That decision was disconcerting because originally I’d been told I’d have six rounds of treatment. A diagnostic scan done after those four rounds still showed the 3 tumors in my neck, along with new spots on my lung lobes. When my daughter and I asked what the spots were, the doctor told us not to worry, that they were on top of it. That response was unsettling; it’s my body, I have a right to ask questions and to know what’s going on.

Six months later, I had another scan. This time there were spots on all fives lung lobes, in my stomach, and on my spine. Yet I was not receiving any treatment. The scan seemed to show that the cancer was exploding, but the medical professionals looking after me were not recommending further treatment.

Now 18 months after the first doctor had seen the lump in the summer of 2009, I decided to seek care elsewhere. A friend of my daughter had suggested calling Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). On a Friday in June of 2011, we made the call. By Monday, an appointment was scheduled. On Wednesday, we went in for a consultation.

When I first called CTCA, the representative was very sensitive about what I’d been through. I was told that CTCA would make all my appointments, schedule all my procedures, and help me every step of the way. “That’s what we do,” the representative told me. I felt I’d made the right call, and when my daughter and I drove up to the hospital a few days later, we burst into tears. I was sick with cancer, and I knew that my job as a mother and a grandmother wasn’t done. Finally going to a hospital that focused entirely on cancer treatment was the right decision.

At CTCA, the doctor acknowledged that the cancer had escalated. He diagnosed it as stage IV NHL, and said that the treatment would have to be strong. He offered to use a new type of liquid radiation. I had been at stage I when I was first diagnosed, and now here I was, with stage IV cancer, knowing full well that there was no such thing as stage V. There was nothing to lose, so I told my doctor to do whatever he thought would help.

I had three days of chemotherapy followed by hydration on the fourth day. I went through that cycle five or six times. On the last day of the last cycle, I had the new radiation he’d told me about within two hours of completing the chemotherapy. My doctor told me that he thought this approach would put me in remission for up to ten years. He warned me that I’d be sick about four weeks after the radiation treatment, which was exactly what happened. My blood cell counts decreased and I needed to have a transfusion. But after a couple of weeks, I was recuperated.

Through all of my treatment at CTCA, I never missed a day of work. The chemotherapy gave me bone pain, but some over-the-counter medication alleviated that problem.

At CTCA, I was treated like a family member, and the care was complete. When I had neuropathy (numbing) in my feet, my care team kept at it until they found an appropriate treatment. When I didn’t feel well, my care team didn’t schedule an appointment for a few days later. They asked me how quickly I could get to the hospital, and if I needed a car to pick me up.

My job was to get well. Everything else was taken care of for me. In the dining room, we could get a complete meal for almost nothing. I had all the information I needed to help me understand what I would experience from the chemotherapy and radiation.

Over the course of my treatment at CTCA, my scan showed improvements. When I found out I had stage IV cancer, I lived my life one day at a time. Now, I can look ahead and make plans for the future. We are planning trips for six months from now, a year from now. If I had not gone to CTCA, I don’t think I would be doing that.

My experience made me realize that I have a choice in the kind of medical care I receive. Now, I try to convey that message to others. If you’re not sure you’re with the right doctor, get a second opinion, or a third opinion. Trust your instinct; don’t ignore it. That is the most important thing you can do for yourself. I did it, and I believe that’s why I’m still here.

Growing up, our house had a long driveway that closely paralleled our neighbors. One day my father saw our neighbor walking up the drive. He took one look at her and said, “She has cancer.” He could see it in her face, in her coloring. A week later a doctor confirmed my father’s suspicions.

That memory flooded into my mind when I was diagnosed with cancer. I was 51 years old at the time. I went to the emergency room because I was not having bowel movements and had sudden, terrible abdominal pain. By the end of the day the doctors said that I had cancer. I couldn’t believe it. I looked healthy. I didn’t look like someone who had cancer. I didn’t look like my neighbor on the driveway.

After colon resection surgery, I needed additional treatment. I considered the Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) facility in Philadelphia, not far from my home in Wayne, Pennsylvania, and also other well-known cancer centers in the Philadelphia area.

During my three-day initial consultation at CTCA, the people I met with talked about what I could expect with chemotherapy. I needed FOLFOX, the standard chemotherapy regimen for colon cancer. I might experience neuropathy, or numbness, as a result of the treatment, so we discussed ways to reduce the numbness.

During my visit to another cancer center, I asked about their neuropathy protocols. That center never heard of the Rebuilder and didn’t use L-glutamine. The doctor was very impressive, and I knew she would provide excellent medical care. But I expected to be on my own for any integrative treatments.

Integrative care was extremely important to me. I didn’t want to fight cancer and my doctor about alternative therapies. At CTCA, these integrative approaches are given weight. Providing excellent traditional medical care comes first and foremost, but integrative treatments like acupuncture and nutrition are automatically included for all patients. That approached tipped the scales for me in favor of CTCA.

CTCA also made room for other seeming eccentricities. As an avid reader, I had a long list of things I had heard of in the past. I wanted an astrologer to select the dates that I had my chemo.  I had also heard that the body is less resistant to certain drugs at certain times of the day (chronotherapy).  So I wanted to be sure to take the drugs at the right time to have the least reactions I don’t know if these approaches helped me heal.  I do know that I was thankful that my requests were treated with respect by my care team.

I had twelve rounds of FOLFOX and was able to continue working until the week before my seventh, at which time I went on short-term disability. There were side effects, but most of the time they were tolerable. I had a lot of help with managing whatever I was going through. The care was tremendous all around. If I had a question, it was answered. If I had a need, it was addressed.

For me, the hardest part of being diagnosed with cancer is the uncertainty. During my treatment, I was surrounded by people who went out of their way to make sure I received the best care possible. But cancer is a fickle and insidious foe. It has deep and lasting tentacles. It creates an uncertainty that we need to learn to live with to some extent.

I consider it a blessing that I received care at CTCA. Everyone went the extra mile for me, from the driver to my doctor to the nurses and everyone in between. Being part of the Cancer Fighters Care Network has been a way for me to give back for what I received.

Today I simply continue to live my life. I continue my work as a technical writer and love to research all kinds of subjects. Physically I feel great, despite some remaining mild neuropathy. 

My family has been extraordinary throughout my treatment, and my niece has been my inspiration. After chemotherapy treatments I would go straight to my sister’s house half a mile away from my own. My niece insisted that I sleep in her bed. loved chemotherapy because it meant sleepovers at her house every two weeks. Watching me go through treatment has made her a stronger person, and has shown her that adversity is just something you handle. Everyone in my family has become much more resilient as a result of my cancer diagnosis—including me.

Sometimes I think of my childhood neighbor as she walked up the drive. She lived many years and put up a valiant fight.  I wonder if the length of her life would have been longer, and the quality of her life would have been better if CTCA had been present in her life.  I know that the quality of my life and my ongoing healing has been enhanced by CTCA.

In 2000, when I was 45 years old, I started having a painful side ache, as if I’d been running. One day it became very painful, so I went home to lay down, but the pain worsened. My sister took me to the emergency room at a hospital in Colorado Springs, near my home in Monument, Colorado. I was in the hospital for four days before the doctors finally found a tumor in one of my kidneys. I had a biopsy taken, which showed the lesion to be cancerous, and then had surgery to remove that kidney.

After surgery, my doctor told me that if the cancer recurred, it would be in my brain or lungs. I felt reassured, though, after the surgery. I thought that the cancer was over.

I worked as a hair stylist and owned a salon for many years. In 2004, I was at the salon and wasn’t feeling well. I told the other stylists, who were surprised because they knew it wasn’t like me to complain. About an hour later, I blacked out while I was shampooing a client. I went to the emergency room, where the doctors found a tumor in my brain. They transferred me to a hospital in Denver.

The brain tumor turned out to be a meningioma, a benign type, but it was very large. I had it removed, and for about a year I had trouble with my speech, often using the completing wrong word for something. Walking also became difficult. A year of speech and physical therapy helped me make a full recovery.

But in 2007, I had a gallbladder attack. I was in severe pain. At the hospital, I had my gallbladder removed. I felt very unwell and remained in the hospital for 18 days while my doctors tried to figure out what was wrong. Finally, my sister checked me out of the hospital, obtaining my medical records before we left.

When we read my records, we saw that someone had written that I should consult a gynecologist for an enlarged ovary. I called my gynecologist and she saw me right away. There was a mass in my pelvic area. She did a hysterectomy and found that the kidney cancer had metastasized to my ovaries, my fallopian tube, and pelvic area.

My gynecologist sent me to an oncologist in Colorado Springs. In his exam room, he introduced himself to my daughter and me and said, “You have stage IV kidney cancer and you have months to live.” He said he could prescribe a medication called sunitinib (Sutent) that I could take “in the meantime.”

That was in September. In the parking lot, I cried about not making it to Christmas. But my daughter wouldn’t hear it She insisted that we weren’t done. She was not going to leave it alone, and told me that I shouldn’t either.

Soon after that appointment my daughter called to tell me she’d spoken with someone at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). My daughter was very smart! She had power of attorney, and she used it to get my medical records so she could send it to CTCA®. I tried to talk her out of going down this road. I was trying to accept that I had three months to live. We didn’t have the money to travel. I was ready to give up hope.

Bu the next day my daughter called to tell me to pack my bags for a trip to Tulsa. I protested because I didn’t want to spend money on my care when I was going to die so soon. She explained that CTCA would cover the travel expense. I was dumbfounded. “Why would they care?” I asked her. “They don’t know me.”

When we walked through the door of the Southwestern Medical Center, it hit me that I was in the right place. I’d been planning my funeral on the way, and suddenly I had hope again. My mother, who is in her 90s, traveled to Tulsa to be with me, and she said the same thing as soon as she arrived.

When I met with my medical oncologist and his team, he told me that no one had a right to tell me that I had three months to live. He also told me that if I’d started taking the sunitinib as soon as my previous oncologist had prescribed it, I may have done more harm. Instead of starting this treatment immediately, my medical oncologist prescribed a regimen to build up my immune system. It took me nine months to get healthy. At the end of that, I started on sunitnib.

During the past several years, I have had multiple treatments. After a bad fall, I had internal bleeding around my liver, and during surgery to fix that problem, my doctors at CTCA found cancer in my liver. I had cytoreduction, a 13-hour surgery that took about four months to recover from. I felt ready to give up during that time. Mind-body counseling at CTCA helped get me through by helping me find strength and hope.

Later, my doctors found cancer in the lining of my stomach. I had CyberKnife radiation, which did not eradicate the cancer, and then microablation, which worked. More recently, I had intravenous chemotherapy that had very bad side effects. After recovering fully, I will return to that treatment but at a lower dose.

Often times my sister would recommend different songs for me to listen to in order to help keep my spirits up. During one treatment, when I didn’t have a family caregiver with me, July from the CTCA fitness center came to be with me. She had brought a song, and it was one that my sister had recommended: "Another Chance to Breathe." As I listened to the lyrics, I realized that this was exactly what I’d been given: another chance to breathe.

The kindness shown to me at CTCA was invaluable. My care team cared for me as an individual person. I wasn’t just another patient to them; I was Bonnie Briley. Any question I had, there was always an answer. No one hesitated to provide the information I wanted. They were glad to take the time to address my concerns.

My family has been the best at giving me hope. I have gone through many difficult treatments and recoveries, and they have never left my side. My daughter has been there for me, along with her husband. I have four sisters and a brother who have also been there, along with my mother. They have rarely missed a visit to Tulsa to be with me during treatment.

Currently I return to CTCA every three weeks, and soon I hope the stretches between trips will be longer. CTCA has my back, my family has my back, and that gives me the strength to keep going.

But there is one other thing that keeps me strong: the patients I speak with. As part of the Cancer Fighters® Care Network, I speak with others coping with a cancer diagnosis who want to hear about my journey. These connections have given me so much strength to continue staying strong. I have so much thanks for what those conversations have given me, even though I’m the one who’s supposed to be helping others!

I have four beautiful grandchildren, ranging in age from five to 11. Today—seven years after someone told me I had three months to live—I am still going to their soccer games, their dance recitals, and all our holiday celebrations. What could be better? I am grateful for moment.

For over 20 years, I had a small lump on my back. I had it biopsied during that time, but the results always came back benign. In March of 2009 when I was 58 years old, my wife, Connie, noticed that the lump had changed in size and color. She was concerned.

I went to see a dermatologist near our home outside Columbus, Ohio, who did a punch biopsy of the area. The results indicated that I likely had skin lymphoma. The doctor recommended that I have additional tests done at a nearby cancer center, a highly regarded facility.

At the cancer facility, I had a CT scan, blood tests and a bone marrow biopsy. The results revealed that the lymphoma was not cutaneous, or skin-based, as the dermatologist had believed. Rather, the disease was systemic, meaning it was in my bone marrow, with about 30–40 percent bone marrow involvement. Some lymph nodes in my abdominal area were enlarged, and my spleen was slightly enlarged. The diagnosis was low-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

When I received the diagnosis, the doctor told me that no treatment was needed until I experienced symptoms, such as night sweats, anemia or raised lymph nodes.

Hearing this recommendation, my wife, Connie, and I were a bit shocked. I had blood cancer. They told Connie and I not to worry about it, but how would that even be possible?

When we came home from the hospital, we decided to look for another facility to get a second opinion. Late one night, I found Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) during a search online. I had a “live” chat with a representative, who was able to verify that my insurance would be accepted. Soon, I had an appointment scheduled.

From the start of my three-day consultation, I could see how CTCA® was different. The way we were greeted and the overall atmosphere were so welcoming. We received a schedule for the visit, found out about activities we could join while we were there and had virtually everything taken care of.

My primary oncologist at CTCA agreed with the previous recommendation that no treatment was needed at that point. The difference was he explained why no treatment was needed, and what would happen if treatment became necessary at some point.

I also met with a naturopathic oncology provider and a dietitian while at CTCA, both of whom suggested ways to keep my immune system strong. I have been following these approaches for several years now.

In August 2015, I started having chest and arm pains after a walk. Throughout the ‘watch and wait’ period, my red blood cell count and hemoglobin numbers were continuously decreasing. A bone marrow biopsy was scheduled and showed that 90 percent of my bone marrow was now involved. At this time, I chose to begin treatment.

At CTCA, I had four rounds of chemotherapy, combined with an antibody treatment for four months. The side effects from the treatment were very minor, and I continued to meet with my naturopathic oncology provider to discuss ways I could keep my immune system strong. In December 2015, Connie and I received a wonderful Christmas present: I was in remission and no further treatment was needed.

Today, I am living my life to the fullest alongside of my bride. Connie is my soul mate. We have been married for 45 years, and we plan on many more years together. We love spending time together with our children and our grandchildren. I am so thankful I am in good health after almost two years with no evidence of cancer.

Becoming part of the CTCA family has been wonderful. Connie and I joined the Cancer Fighters® Care Net together. And I participated in a Celebrate Life® event five years after my diagnosis in 2014. We enjoy our trips back to CTCA for my check-ups.

The beginning of Bud’s journey with cancer was frightening. Skin lymphoma is simple to treat compared to other types of cancer, so we did not do much research of our own after the initial diagnosis.

After Bud had the biopsy, we waited about five weeks for the results. Upon our return for the results, he had additional blood tests and I knew that Bud didn’t have skin lymphoma. I was sure that the cancer was in his whole system. I’m not a quiet person, but the diagnosis left me speechless. I was numb and had a hard time absorbing any information. When the doctor told us that no intervention was needed, I was very concerned.

Bud and I read more about non-Hodgkin lymphoma and came to understand that the disease can be slow to progress, but that it could become life-threatening in time. So, we wanted to explore other options.

I had mixed feelings about CTCA at first. As with any new experience, you don’t know what you’re going to encounter. However, from the start of his consultation, I was totally pleased. The reception was welcoming, we took classes, participated in the laughter club—it was fun and inspiring. The care was professional and also compassionate. The naturopathic oncology provider and dietitian told us what Bud could do in terms of diet and lifestyle changes that might help stop the disease or slow its progression. We were willing to try any intervention that might help, and I was grateful for the experts who were able to guide us in that direction.

Bud’s care team at CTCA always included me in the process. They gave me space to ask questions. No one was ever in a hurry. If there were aspects of his disease that I didn’t understand, they would patiently explain the details over and over. When we were meeting with clinicians, we felt that we were their number one and only priority for that moment. CTCA is an environment of caring.

As a caregiver, I have learned the importance of just being there—to be willing to listen, hold a hand, give a hug, whatever is needed. Support comes in many forms, but mostly it’s just about being there. When Bud was working, I was always making his meals and following his dietitian’s advice about what fruits and vegetables to add and what vitamins to take. I try to provide the support he needs at any time. Through it all, we have remained strong together, united by our faith and our wish to have many more years together and with our family.

The clinicians at CTCA have empowered Bud by being forthcoming with information and sharing it in the most positive light possible. They provide reassurance that if the cancer does progress, they are there to treat it.

I have taken the positivity we feel at CTCA and translated that into our life together. We seldom sit around on the couch watching TV. Instead, we get up and do things, keep active. Bud didn’t retire so he could come home and wait to get sick. We have our lives to live, and we are going to live our lives.

When I was 49 years old, I noticed a small knot in my jaw and went to the dentist to have it checked out. I thought it was an abscess. There was no pain and I didn’t have any other symptoms except for some swelling in my neck. My dentist referred me to a facial surgeon, who prescribed antibiotics. The swelling did not dissipate after taking the medication, though, so he did a biopsy.

After the biopsy surgery, the surgeon asked if we wanted to come to his office when the results were in or if he should call us. I opted for the phone call.

On a Friday morning, I was about to get in my car and go to work when the phone rang. Realizing I hadn’t left yet, my husband, Shawn, came to the driveway and waved me back inside. The surgeon told us that the biopsy results showed that I had cancer; specifically non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Shawn and I sat down on the couch and slowly the news hit us. I was in shock. We were still almost newlyweds and I had a new grandbaby. How could this be happening?

Soon after my diagnosis, I met with an oncologist nearby us in West Virginia and had a bone marrow biopsy. But although I was taking these steps, I was also thinking about treatment options.

As it turned out, my father was also thinking about where I should be treated, he called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). After I talked to them, I was on my way to Atlanta for an initial consultation at CTCA®.

The treatment proposed by the Care Team I met with was similar to what my first oncologist recommended, but everything surrounding the treatment felt very refreshing and welcoming to me. During that first visit, it was clear that this dedicated team was there to support me. Everyone I met wanted to help me, was available to me, and cared about my treatment and recovery.

At the end of the consultation, everyone I’d met during my stay—the doctor, the nutritionist, the mind-body therapist, the pastor—came to my room together. Seeing them all, knowing they were ready to fight for me, I couldn’t hold back the tears. I felt so fortunate to be where I was.

Every three weeks with rituximab plus the combination chemotherapy regimen known as CHOP. Shawn and I would take an hour-long flight to Atlanta on a Sunday or Monday, and stay overnight. Then I would receive a shot of Neulasta, to maintain my white blood cell counts, on Tuesday morning, and we would fly back home. On Wednesday I was back at work.

I had several tumors throughout my abdomen and pelvic area and one did not shrink enough from chemotherapy, so I also received radiation five days each week for five weeks. Dr. Randolph explained that the area of concern may have been scar tissue, but he wanted to be sure that any cancer was treated to the fullest extent. During this treatment, I stayed in Atlanta.

Although there were days when I felt bad, there were no problematic side effects. The third day after treatment was always difficult; I had achiness and fatigue. But I was still able to work. I followed the suggestions of the nutritionist and naturopath on my Care Team, which I think helped.

Losing my hair was difficult. I had long hair, and it felt very devastating to watch it fall out. I have Shawn to thank for helping me over that hurdle. Even though I felt self-conscious and didn’t like the way I looked, he reassured me all the time that I was beautiful.

Above all, what I came to value most during my treatment was the phenomenal care I received. The way I was treated—and here I don’t mean just medically but as a person—was so special, and different to what I’ve experienced at other medical facilities.

My first infusion of chemotherapy had to start later than expected. The chemotherapy nurse stayed with me until the treatment was finally done at three o’clock in the morning. All of my needs were met, down to the smallest details. If my flight arrived late, my appointments were shifted without any problem. When you are coping with cancer, there is so much to deal with. CTCA took care of all the background noise so I could concentrate on getting better. Even things I hadn’t anticipated were taken care of. And the travel was seamless.

Shawn, my daughters, and friends were also pillars of strength. They were by my side the whole time. Shawn never wavered. He was always upbeat. My parents also tried to never let me see them worry in order to help me stay strong.

A cancer diagnosis can be fearful. From the minute you hear the news, you are wondering, “am I going to make it?” At CTCA, I felt a hope that helped melt that fear. Today I try to give others that same support, because sometimes you just need to talk to someone who’s been down the road you are now traveling.

Today we are back to life as usual—spending time with our children and grandchildren, one of whom had just been born when I was diagnosed. We travel when we can, see movies, and just enjoy being together. I am feeling fantastic and couldn’t be happier with the care I received at CTCA. 

Carla and I had been married for a little over a year when she was diagnosed. But we sat together on the couch after that memorable phone call and then called close family and friends because we knew their support would give us strength. We spent the day together, driving around, stopping along the way, and talking. We met Carla’s parents to discuss the next step and just to gain strength from being together.

When we called CTCA we spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist. Everything he told us about CTCA was appealing, especially how the center is run—more like a hotel than a hospital, in terms of the comfort it provides to its patients. And most importantly each patient’s treatment is specific to each individual’s cancer. By the time Carla completed her three-day consultation visit, we both felt certain that CTCA was where we wanted her to be treated.

The care that Carla received during her treatment confirmed our initial response. Her chemotherapy nurse was great, going above and beyond to be by Carla’s side. Our CTCA pastor, Chip, was also incredibly supportive. When Carla stayed in Atlanta during her radiation treatment, she attended church services and Chip was there with an open heart and ready to listen. When we were at the center for scans and treatments, he always sought us out to offer encouragement and pray with us.

Although I was with Carla during her chemotherapy treatments, I needed to stay home for my teaching job during those weeks of radiation. We spoke every night and she flew home on weekends during that stretch of time. It could have been stressful to be apart, but the comfort of CTCA helped diminish the stress. Knowing she was in such good hands gave me peace of mind when I could not be there with her.

Carla amazed me. She was so strong and so brave throughout this entire journey. It was an honor to offer her whatever care I could, rubbing her feet at night when she was tired, cooking her dinner, and reassuring her about her beauty when she was feeling down about losing her hair.

CTCA included me in all her visits and provided whatever we needed. I was able to work out at a gym during our stays in Atlanta. The food was delicious; I actually put on weight during Carla’s treatment. I was given information about the cancer Carla was diagnosed with so that I could better understand the disease and its treatment.

We made some lifelong friends with the staff and other patients during Carla’s treatment. This aspect of CTCA was also invaluable to us. Being able to talk with others who were going through the same thing was yet another comfort.

The unknown side of cancer is hard to deal with; there’s no way around that. But the Care Team gave us such hope and such thorough support, it was impossible to feel despair. Instead, we felt uplifted every time we were there, and we still meet those same feelings when we return for check-ups even years later. When I consider what we experienced at CTCA, all I can think is, “ask and you shall receive.”  We trusted our feelings about where to go, and the wonderful people took care of our every need.

I believe I have been diligent about my health for a long time. I go to the gym two or three times a week, I’m active, and I rarely get sick. But toward the end of 2012, when I was 44 years old, I started feeling out of breath just from going up a flight of stairs. I had heartburn, indigestion and pain in my back.

After several tests, I was diagnosed with a form of pancreatic cancer called carcinoma of the ampulla of vater that required treatment right away.

Once I had a diagnosis, the gastroenterologist put me in touch with a surgeon and an oncologist. After speaking to the surgeon, I decided to proceed with Whipple surgery. I underwent surgery in March 2013.

A few months later, I was starting to feel like I should have been further along in my recovery. I was still very fatigued.

I wasn’t dissatisfied with the care I’d been receiving but at the same time, I did feel like something was missing. I wondered about getting a second opinion and wondered about what other type of care was possible.

I called CTCA® and decided that I wanted to look into treatment there. I had already started chemotherapy locally, so my visit had to be timed according to that treatment. But by mid-August, we were ready to visit CTCA.

When I met with Dr. Klimant, I was reassured about my decision. He said now it was a matter of “closing the back door” to make every effort so the cancer would not recur. I decided to switch to CTCA for the remainder of my treatment, which entailed three rounds of chemotherapy.

I was so happy with the care I received at CTCA. I had some side effects but my Care Team assisted with them immediately, providing treatment for the nausea and fatigue that included both complementary approaches and prescription medications. We met with Pastor Phil, who was such an inspiration to my husband, Hector, and me. We were able to stay overnight after chemotherapy, and all the resources that we had access to were valuable—a dietitian, a naturopath, the cafeteria, the social worker and on and on.

I finished treatment. Hector and I always had a plan to celebrate at least 50 years together. We planned to see our children go to college and start their own families. And we have a plan to fulfill our purposes in life, whatever they may be. Our plan isn’t finished yet.

Since being treated at CTCA, my plan now includes helping others in their journey with cancer. I am glad to be able to encourage others to be advocates for themselves, to never hesitate to ask questions or get a second opinion, or even a third opinion if that is what they want. I also encourage people to be surrounded by loved ones, as I was.

When Cassandra started feeling out of breath and having different pains in her body, I was concerned. I began urging her to see a doctor. Cancer was the furthest thing from my mind, but I wanted her to get well. Getting a correct diagnosis was a journey in itself, but once we started there was no going back. But I knew that we were on the road to figuring out what was causing all these problems.

I also knew that I would be with her for all her appointments from start to finish. I wanted to encourage and support her in any way I could.

When she received the diagnosis of cancer, I made up my mind to be supportive. I did not want to show my emotion, to cause her any alarm or upset. I knew we would do what was necessary and get through it together. Any situation can be turned around. I saved my worries for when I was alone.

The Whipple surgery was difficult because the procedure was long. I trusted the surgeon as I knew that he knew what he was doing. But still, when a surgery is expected to take 10 to 12 hours, you’re going to spend those 10 to 12 hours worrying that everything will be okay. As it turned out, Cassandra’s operation was done in about 6 hours.

Seeing my wife right after surgery was the hardest moment for me during this journey. Knowing what she had just been through and that she was in pain was very difficult to bear. I would stay overnight with her at the hospital just to make sure she had whatever she needed, leaving only when the nurses we trusted came back for the day. Then I’d go home, get the children ready for school, do what was needed at home, and return to the hospital. That was a difficult time, but it would soon be over.

When Cassandra began considering seeking care at a different facility, I supported her. I wanted her to feel comfortable, and I would take her wherever she felt she needed to go. But I was taken by surprise by my own response to CTCA. I loved it from the moment we walked in the door.

Caring for someone with cancer can involve a lot of driving from place to place. There are appointments in different facilities, and even when the clinicians are in the same building, there’s a lot of going here and going there. You have to keep track of all the doctors. But at CTCA everyone comes to you. We stayed in one place and everyone came to us. I loved this. You and your doctors are in one room, all together. This approach relieved an enormous amount of stress and inspired a great deal of confidence.

During our appointments, the doctors spoke to both of us together. When they asked Cassandra if she had questions, they also asked me. They recognized that I was her caregiver, that I was in the room with her, and that I was part of the process for her, too. The activities provided for caregivers offered further comfort and care. Caregivers need to take care of themselves, to take a break now and then. CTCA knew this, and made sure that I was taken care of.

The staff there came to quickly know us by name. They recognized us at each visit, even people in the cafeteria. The camaraderie among the patients and caregivers was also incredibly supportive and encouraging.

Since the moment Cassandra started feeling unwell, I knew that I would do whatever was necessary to make sure she would return to good health. We were surrounded by people who love and support us, and who believed that all would be well. Our youngest son was graduating from high school during Cassandra’s treatment, and thanks to the care she received, she was able to be at his graduation. She walked into the auditorium slowly but she was there.

When I was 57 years old, I went to my local doctor near my home in Nashville, Tennessee, for my annual mammogram. After the exam, I received a call from my doctor telling me I needed to come back to her office. I had a biopsy, and was soon diagnosed with triple-negative breast cancer. The doctor explained to me that “triple negative” was a subtype of breast cancer that does not express genes for the estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor or HER2, a genetic variant. These terms were new to me at the time, but I understood that the diagnosis was serious and that I needed treatment. However, when the doctor began speaking about chemotherapy, all I felt was scared. I wanted a second opinion.

Following that visit, I had another biopsy to check more areas of my breasts for cancer, which revealed more areas with cancer. The doctor I met for a second opinion also urged me to start with chemotherapy.

As it happened, my sister had just interviewed for a job with Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) outside Atlanta and she wanted me to go there for a consultation. I wanted to get another opinion, so I reached out to CTCA.

Though I had been warned by some people that traveling for treatment might be too challenging, I felt that being treated locally was not necessarily going to be easy either. I would still need people to drive me to and from the hospital, which can be burdensome, and I wasn’t sure that I wanted to burden my caregivers during my treatments.

I could see from the beginning of my evaluation that CTCA was different. The doctors were more thorough in their explanations of why I needed chemotherapy and what they expected would happen. This level of detail and understanding allowed me to accept the treatment recommendations, instead of just feeling scared like I had before.

The chemotherapy treatment was difficult. The type of breast cancer present in my body required a strong attack and I felt the repercussions strongly. I was nauseous and unable to eat. I was weak but unable to rest.

Then, my hair fell out. That was hard for me. My hair had been long—down to my back. I had to look at myself in the mirror and say, “Well, you can die with your hair or live with the baldness.” I tried a wig, which itched, and a scarf, which blew off, and then lightweight hats. I was going through menopause at this time too, so I was prone to hot flashes and sweating, so even the hats proved uncomfortable. Finally I got brave and bold and started walking around with nothing covering my bald head. Later, many people at the hospital thanked me for doing this, and they began doing the same thing.

After four rounds of this strong chemotherapy, I had four rounds of another type of chemotherapy. Then, I had surgery followed by five weeks of radiation starting about a month after the surgery was completed.

Throughout this time, my care team at CTCA was keeping a close watch on me. They prescribed medications to prevent nausea and gave me many helpful recommendations for improving my quality of life. Physical therapy, massage and acupuncture—all available on-site at CTCA—made a huge difference for me.

During this very overwhelming time, it was healing to have these services under one roof. At home, when I was experiencing side effects, help was always a quick phone call away. My care team responded quickly when I needed something. I never felt on my own. My family also was incredibly supportive and never left me to fend for myself. They made sure I ate healthy and gave me the comfort of their homes.

Today, I am recovered from the treatment and happy to report that I am back to work and have resumed some of my normal routines.

I’ve been able to return to scuba diving, which is one of my passions. I love visiting different islands and practicing underwater photography. Now, I have a trip planned for next year. I am also a volunteer with the Cancer Fighters Care Net at CTCA, speaking with newly diagnosed patients seeking insights about CTCA and the cancer journey in general.

I also am trying to improve my life and health. I have adopted a new lifestyle of exercise and healthy eating. I do water aerobics three times a week and am working with a personal trainer and a nutritionist. I visit CTCA routinely for my check-ups.

Looking back, I am glad that I kept my positive attitude, which helped me get through the harshest part of treatment. My faith also has helped me during this challenging time. Finally, I am thankful that CTCA continues to be there for me, informing me of how to stay in good health and keeping close surveillance.

I’ve always been diligent about having my annual medical exam, including blood tests and a mammogram. When I was 62 years old, the nurse at my doctor’s office near our home outside of Tulsa, Oklahoma, noticed something on my mammogram and decided to do an ultrasound. I couldn’t feel anything, but she said something didn’t look right to her. My doctor came to help with the ultrasound and located the spot that had given the nurse concern. They told me to come back the next day for a biopsy. The tissue sample tested positive for breast cancer. They suggested I have the tumor surgically removed.

A surgeon performed the lumpectomy, which also included removal of four lymph nodes. Although I was in shock, the procedure was fairly simple and straightforward. I went home the same day. However, I had to wait a full week to find out whether the lymph nodes that had been removed tested positive for breast cancer.

When I finally received the results, the news was not good. Two of the four excised lymph nodes had tested positive for cancer. A week or so later, I was back at the surgeon’s office so he could see how I was healing from the lumpectomy and to discuss treatment options. But there wasn’t much of a discussion. He told me I could have a mastectomy, chemotherapy or do nothing. He said I should decide what I wanted to do and let him know. I never spoke with an oncologist who could explain to me exactly what I was facing. I was left in the dark. How could I make a decision without that information? 

A few months before my diagnosis, I had attended a one-day class at my church. The class, called Our Journey of Hope®, is offered by Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) as a way for individuals to understand what people coping with a cancer diagnosis are going through. The aim is to help us all be good caregivers to any members of our community who may experience cancer. I wanted to understand how to approach people with cancer and how to help them, so I went to the class at my church. Of course at that time, I had no idea the first person I would be helping was me.

It was from this class I came to know of CTCA. After my first surgeon presented me with treatment options, I decided to call CTCA for a second opinion. A couple of weeks later, I went to the CTCA hospital in Tulsa. Right away, I began a second journey of hope. Walking through the door was such a pleasant experience, and different from other hospitals I’d been to. I met with a team of cancer experts ready to care for me.

After undergoing several tests, my team spoke with me about the possible treatments I could have. My medical oncologist recommended chemotherapy, but also emphasized the decision was mine. He told me about what I could expect with the treatment, including the side effects. He made everything simple to understand and equipped me with the knowledge I needed in order to make a decision.

I opted for treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy. For six months, I had chemotherapy once every three weeks. Going to CTCA for these appointments was pleasant. I never dreaded it because everyone there made the experience easy for me. After chemotherapy was completed, I had six radiation treatments, administered once a day for six days.

Chemotherapy was difficult at times. The usual pattern was that I would feel fine for a day or two and then some discomfort would set in. Just as the pain was subsiding, it was time to go back for the next treatment. My white blood cell count decreased, which put me at risk for infections. It was difficult to feel too tired to do the gardening I love to do.

But CTCA was there for me. I was given medications to boost my white blood cell count. I went for acupuncture, which helped with various side effects. And I always knew I could call anytime, 24 hours a day, and reach someone who genuinely wanted to help. My care nurse, Libby, was available around the clock. Although it can be hard to reach out, I learned to welcome the assistance.

I enjoyed getting to know the nurses, and appreciated I had the same nurse for infusions. At many healthcare facilities, the nurse you see is the individual on call and there may be no repetition from visit to visit. At CTCA, I had the pleasure of developing a friendship with a nurse I saw at each visit. A small thing like that makes a big difference in the experience.

In the most challenging moments during treatment, I often reached for a piece of scripture, Jeremiah 29:11, which ends, “to give you a future and a hope.” I kept those words close to my heart and mind and they helped see me through. I am also grateful to my husband and daughter Katie, who were my caregivers. Having them there beside me provided comfort and support. Sometimes being a caregiver just means being there, and that was often what I needed.

A few months after completing treatment, an imaging scan showed no visible sign of cancer. I return to CTCA for check-ups every six months. I have my energy back and have been able to return to my normal life. My husband and I celebrated our 44th anniversary with an early second honeymoon to Hawaii.

My experience with cancer has shown me the importance of knowing all your options and having hope. No one should give up, especially not when there are clinicians like the ones I found at CTCA.

The emotional side of facing a cancer diagnosis was the hardest part for my mother and me. The stress of not knowing whether the treatment is working and how the treatment will make you feel—these are extremely challenging concerns. And the fear of dying is impossible to avoid; it’s hard not to fear the worst.

As a caregiver, though, it’s important to put on a brave face. I never wanted my mother to see my fear, and I think that helped her. Knowing there were people at CTCA I could talk to if I needed support helped me keep that brave face when I was with my mother.

Her doctors and nurses at CTCA always included me, and that was important. The medications would sometimes make it hard for my mother to remember appointments or her doctor’s answers to her questions, so it was crucial I was there with her.

Being with my mother helped me cope with my mother’s diagnosis. It was when I wasn’t with her that I worried the most. Bringing her dinner, seeing her on a daily basis, those moments let me know she was OK and reassured me the treatment was helping her. Sometimes family and friends don’t want to visit people going through cancer treatment because they don’t want the patient to see them upset. But I think being with my mother in person made me better able to be strong when I was with her because I knew she was OK.

More importantly, all that time together also helped my mother. She told me later that just sitting and listening to her tell me about what she was going through was very strengthening for her. I didn’t know that at the time, but now I’m even more thankful I was able to be her caregiver, and I’m thankful for the care she received at CTCA.

Looking back today, I can see that I’d been having symptoms for a while, though I didn’t pay any attention to them. Often when I ate, I would have trouble getting my food down after swallowing. But I found that drinking something warm would ease its passage, so I never had it checked out.

Then, on New Year’s Day, 2008, I went to use the bathroom and passed out on the floor. An ambulance took me to the hospital.

I hadn’t had a bowel movement while at the hospital, and when I got home and had one, with difficulty, the stool was black. My wife called a nurse, who told us to immediately go to the hospital. After a day and a half of tests, including the upper and lower gastrointestinal tracts, my wife and I went home for the weekend. When we returned on Monday for the test results, the doctor told me that I had esophageal cancer that had spread to one of my lymph nodes.  

Back home, in South Alabama, I talked to my brother, who happened to be a hospice chaplain. He gave me the number for the Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and said, “Charles, I’ve never used this number, but I’d like you to call.” I took his advice. Within two weeks, we were heading out to the Midwestern Regional Medical Center, in Zion, Illinois, for a second opinion.

CTCA® made us feel comfortable. At the airport, there was a limousine waiting to pick us up and take us to the motel, and then to the hospital. In fact, when we needed to go somewhere, transportation was provided by CTCA. 

On that first visit, which lasted a little over a week, I met with my Care Team to discuss treatment. They were so caring and supportive. They offered me various options for treatment, and after making our decision, we returned home and packed our bags for a longer stay. We returned to the center for five weeks, and I received radiation treatments as well as oral chemotherapy, twice a day.

The people at CTCA were so warm, and made us feel so safe and at peace, it truly became our home. There is simply a wonderful atmosphere of togetherness there. During five weeks of radiation treatments at Midwestern, I also took took a chemotherapy drug, Xeloda—three pills in the morning and three at bedtime. After the radiation treatments were finished, I came home and continued to take the Xeloda pills for two more weeks, and waited for the radiation I had undergone to continue shrinking the tumor in my esophagus.

I took vitamin supplements, and followed my Care Team’s suggestions for keeping my white blood cell count up, since the treatments left me very tired. After a few weeks at home, it was time to return to CTCA for surgery. We met with our surgeon, Dr. Staren, who told us about the operation I was about to have. He warned us that he might need to remove part, or all, of the esophagus.

As it turned out, the entire esophagus had to be removed, but I was in trusted hands. He brought part of my stomach upwards, and sewed the top of it to my throat, making a narrow passage for food to go through. In the beginning, as I was healing, food would get caught in that narrow passage, and I would go to CTCA to have my throat dilated numerous times. They kept telling me that one day, it would stay open for good. They were right. 

Dr. Staren and Dr. Thompson, my oncologist, were simply wonderful. I have grown very fond of Dr. Thompson. She encouraged me, and told me I was going to make it through—and I have.

I’m doing excellent today. In 2011, I was diagnosed with heart trouble, and underwent four bypasses. Today, I have energy, and I can eat almost anything I want.

I believe that I am still here today because of my trust in God, my supportive family and friends, plus the care provided by CTCA and my wonderful surgeon. I believe God provided me strength and there is more for me to do. I am thankful for the healing and strength that is allowing me to continue living.

My wife, Bertha, was with me every step of the way, and when I returned from a test or a treatment, she was there with a smile, saying, “There, you’ve reached another milestone!” She kept a daily journal of the experience, along with a blog. When I look at that journal today, I get goose bumps, thinking of all I went through and how wonderful I feel now.

Around three years ago, Dr. Thompson transferred from Midwestern Regional Medical Center to Southeastern Regional Medical Center near Atlanta. I said, “Dr. Thompson that’s within a four-hour drive to my house. Can I transfer with you?” She advised me to make an official request, and CTCA confirmed it. Today, I go to the Atlanta area for my follow-ups, with the same oncologist who helped save my life.

CTCA is a wonderful place if you are dealing with cancer. They take care of your needs with an underlying concern and love. They give us hope, and show us the light at the end of the tunnel. It’s a place that cares about you as a person, meeting the needs you have, and you start to care about the people there, as much as they care about you. A benefit of my cancer journey is being able to be part of a Cancer Fighters Team for CTCA.

I’m thankful for each of my 69 years. I work part-time, and take care of our immense garden, where we grow our own food. My wife and I will soon celebrate our 50th wedding anniversary. With four children, three daughters and one son, and 14 grandchildren, I feel truly, truly blessed.

Many women are used to receiving the “do-over letter” after an annual routine mammogram. Sometimes the technician cannot see everything, perhaps because the scan wasn’t done correctly, and we receive a letter in the mail asking us to return for another test. In 2007, just a few days before Christmas, I received such a letter. But because I had received the same type of letter a few times over the years and I was busy with holiday preparations, I set the letter aside. 

After New Year’s Day, I opened the letter and gave it the attention it deserved. To my surprise, the letter said I needed to return for another mammogram because of something the radiologist had noticed. The region of my breast referred to in the letter had not been a hard-to-read area in the past, so I was concerned. I tried to tell myself that it was just another cyst, something I’d experienced before, but I couldn’t quite convince myself.

Three weeks passed before I was able to get in for another mammogram. I was then referred to a surgeon for a biopsy, which I had on February 14, 2008. The results confirmed that I had ductal carcinoma in situ, also called stage 0 breast cancer. When I heard the word “cancer,” I couldn’t believe that the surgeon was speaking about me. It was as if the conversation was about someone else. I felt like I was floating out of my body and watching myself from a distance—it all seemed so surreal. “They couldn’t be talking about me. I don’t have cancer,” I thought. 

But they were talking about me and I did have cancer. I went ahead with the recommended lumpectomy and was sent home immediately after the procedure. A couple of weeks later, I returned for a follow-up visit and the surgeon reported that the incision was healing nicely. He recommended that I see an oncologist to learn about treatment options.

My husband and I decided to seek a second opinion from an oncologist of our choosing. We decided to call Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). All that mattered was that I had the right care for me. 

We called CTCA® the next day. Very soon we were speaking with an Oncology Information Specialist who told me about the hospital's programs. Even from dealing with the initial paperwork, I could see the dedication that went into patient care at every step of the way. 

I went for an initial consultation and met with my medical oncologist, who explained the particulars of cancer very clearly, even drawing pictures to make sure I understood exactly what he was telling me. He wanted to do an imaging test just to be certain that all problematic areas were detected. It turned out that he found two new trouble spots. I decided to proceed with treatment at CTCA.

In mid-May of 2008, my breast surgeon performed a lumpectomy. In addition to a smooth procedure, I was left with a scar that was barely visible. I was surprised that I was kept overnight for observation after the surgery at CTCA. A friend who came to visit me at the hospital expressed her amazement about the care I was receiving.

I also received radiation treatment with MammoSite® Targeted Radiation Therapy. With this procedure, a balloon-type device is inserted into the area where the cancer cells are located. The radiation was completed in five days, with two treatments per day, and the only side effect I experienced was being a little tired.

My breast cancer was caught early and my medical oncologist says early detection is key in fighting cancer. After my diagnosis, I would tell other women how important it is to get a yearly mammogram. Two of those women were my sisters. One went regularly to be tested, but the other had not been in a few years. After promising them lunch, they both went for their mammograms. One of my sisters was diagnosed with stage II breast cancer. She did not think twice about going to CTCA. I am happy to say that in 2014, my sister attended Celebrate Life® to commemorate her five-year survivorship.

I am so thankful that my journey brought me to CTCA. Even years later, I am amazed at the quality of care that I received and still receive. I cannot say enough good things about the CTCA employees who took care of me.

I also want to acknowledge the faith that helped carry me through my fears. The strength to cope with this challenge came from God. My family and friends were also there to offer support when I needed it the most. I do not know what I would have done without this network of support on which I could lean. The prayers, meals and calls—and just having them there—helped get me through a rough part of my life.

Today, I am feeling great. I am a Cancer Fighters® Ambassador and I am part of Care Net where I am able to help others who are just beginning their journey at CTCA. I speak at different events hoping to convey how important it is to take care of yourself and to get yearly mammograms.

As I am nearing the 10-year mark of survivorship, I think back to all the things I have been able to enjoy: watching our son grow up, celebrating my dad’s 90th birthday, weddings, travelling, helping others and generally, just enjoying life with my family and friends.

Some time in 2011, I noticed I was putting on weight and decided to diet. The pounds came off, but soon I was becoming too thin. I went from 175 pounds to 142 pounds in less than a year. I could see my ribcage.

In the spring of 2012, my wife noticed a lump on my neck. Soon after, we found one on my leg. I was experiencing loose bowel issues several times a day. My wife kept telling me to see a doctor, and I kept resisting. I hadn’t been for a check-up in decades, and it was my habit to not seek medical care unless something was broken or bleeding.

By Memorial Day weekend, my son, who was in his early 30s at the time, told me, “You don’t look good,” and my family made me promise to go see a doctor immediately.

Because I didn’t have a primary care physician, I went to the local after-hours emergency clinic near our home in Bad Axe, Michigan. The doctor there did a computed tomography (CT) scan and told me he was almost positive I had cancer, even though he wasn’t an oncologist.

We live in a small town with limited options for cancer care. I had a friend who had been treated at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I did some research and decided to inquire about treatment there. I was impressed from the start. When I called, everything was handled so smoothly. By the following week, I was at CTCA®.

When I arrived at CTCA, the first step was a biopsy so that I could receive an accurate diagnosis. Dr. Shah told me that I had stage IV non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL). I had surgery so that several lymph nodes could be removed.

Then I started on combination chemotherapy with a regimen Rituximab-bendamustine (R-bendamustine) for four cycles, followed by Zevalin therapy. After a few rounds of treatment, the cancer went away. That was in the early winter of 2012.

By March of 2013, I knew something wasn’t right. I was having weight and bowel issues again, and my CTCA doctors confirmed that the cancer had returned. This time, I was given R-ICE (Rituxan, ifosfamid, carboplatin and etoposide) chemotherapy twice with no response. The cancer would not go away, even with a more intensive regimen.

Seeing that this second stretch of chemotherapy was not helping, my doctors recommended a stem cell transplant. I had been researching NHL online and asking many questions, and I knew that this approach was my last hope. Both of my sisters were tested for donor compatibility, and both were matches. My youngest sister, Karen, ended up as my donor.

To prepare my body to accept the transplanted cells, I needed to undergo a different chemotherapy that would destroy my immune system. This phase of treatment was the most difficult one for me. I had terrible side effects, including painful mouth sores, aching muscles, extreme fatigue, and a loss of appetite so severe I had to be fed intravenously. I wouldn’t wish this experience on my worst enemy. But my Care Team helped me through. They helped me maintain a nutritious diet. Physical therapy and massages helped ease the pain and other issues.

On July 1, 2013, the date of my 35th wedding anniversary to my beautiful wife, Jean, I underwent a stem cell transplant. The procedure itself was rather simple and took only an hour. There was no pain at all, although my sister did have some flu-like symptoms afterwards for a short while. I remained at the CTCA guest quarters for 80 days after the procedure and that place really became a temporary home. I stayed in a two-bedroom suite and used the second bedroom as an office. I saw Dr. Redei or Dr. Abutalib at least once a week. Sometimes I needed to be rehydrated or have magnesium treatments.

I had regular massages and also tried Reiki therapy during this time. I was very skeptical about this modality, but it was actually incredibly calming. I have no idea how it works, but I do know that it helped calm me. I was very weak after the transplant, but slowly started to regain my strength, and I also worked with a physical therapist at CTCA. My naturopathic oncology clinician suggested vitamin B and probiotics. My dietitians suggested foods that are high in magnesium and fiber.

In October of 2013, my Care Team told me I could return home. Life wasn’t completely back to normal. I was weaker and tired easily. Exercising was hard because work tired me out. I continued with weekly saline infusions, which my wife administered, and I had a home nurse to change my dressings. But I continued to get stronger.

Jean was amazing. She did everything to help me get better. She cared for me and kept me healthy and stayed in touch with CTCA about my status. I am so blessed to have her in my life. CTCA was very supportive of her as my caregiver. My doctors insisted that she join my appointments, which helped us both. They were there for her just as much as they were there for me. Being able to play an active role in my care helped reduce her anxiety about my situation.

In the spring of 2015, I experienced graft-versus-host disease, which my CTCA team treated promptly and accurately. Within two months, I stopped taking the medication needed to treat this issue.

There are so many people at CTCA who made a difference in my life. Julie Rout, my Care Manager, was exceptional. Every time I called about a symptom or other issue, she was right there handling it. Dr. Redei impressed me from the start. I knew he was working in my best interest, even when I resisted his recommendations. I trusted him entirely. Dr. Abutalib also had my complete trust, and he also kept me laughing, which I needed.

I will continue to go to CTCA for as long as I need to. The fact that I can even provide this testimonial feels like a miracle to me. I had late-stage cancer, and here I am, getting stronger every day, a direct result of the care I received at CTCA.

Today, I urge other people to listen to their bodies. If I had been more diligent about seeing a doctor and looking after my health, the cancer may have been found sooner. I also encourage people to at least speak with someone at CTCA. The care I received there was great. The doctors are excellent, but the quality extended to other clinicians I met during my treatment. I am extremely thankful to have my life back.

Five years before I was diagnosed, I was working out four times a week and in great shape. I had always been on the go and eating whenever I could find time. Friends noticed that I had lost a lot of weight, but I just thought it was due to my active lifestyle. During this time, I was constantly having stomach problems. My doctors recommended over-the-counter drugs. For a month, I also had constant diarrhea. My doctors found nothing wrong.
Then, one day during my workout, I was stretching out on a Pilates ball and I noticed a bump protruding under my left rib cage. I knew something was not right. I had also been very tired, having a hard time eating, and in general, not feeling good. I just hurt. I went to my internal medicine doctor and had an MRI and CT scan. Four days later, the physician assistant told me that I had a mass in my pancreas and lesions on my liver. Holding back tears, I asked if they could take them out. But she said they couldn’t. The physician assistant mentioned that I should see an oncologist, and that was the first indication that she was talking about cancer.

Two weeks later, in June 2008, I was able to see an oncologist near my home outside of Bangor, Maine. Between the two appointments, I did a lot of research on pancreatic cancer. When I got to the oncologist’s office, I was told I had stage IV pancreatic cancer. The doctor recommended a chemotherapy regimen, which I did not believe was appropriate for me, based on my research. I also asked about other treatment options and was told no other options were available. My sister and I sought a second opinion from another hospital, but we they recommended the same approach.

A few weeks passed by, and I remembered commercials I had seen for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). 
Determined to find out whether other treatment options were available to me, I checked it out and made a phone call. I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist at CTCA®, who provided me with lots of information. CTCA had what I was looking for and I was interested. I chose to fly to CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in Suburban Chicago to learn more.

That August, I flew to Chicago. As soon as my mom and I walked in the front doors, I knew this was the place I needed to be. That day, I met with my nurse navigator, who explained how things would go for my evaluation and consultation. I first met with my intake physician, then I started all the testing—a bone scan, CT scan and PET/CT scan to confirm the diagnosis and determine whether the cancer had spread anywhere else. Next, I met with all the people who would provide me with supportive care services. Then I met with my medical oncologist. We discussed my treatment options. Everything was coming together the way I needed it to. Together, we chose a treatment plan, and I was ready to fight.

That weekend, my mom and I stayed in town and participated in day trips to local attractions the hospital organized for patients and their families. We went on a boat ride and to the Bristol Renaissance Faire. That was the best thing because it really helped take our minds off what I was about to go through the next week—beginning my pancreatic cancer treatment.

I started a chemotherapy regimen, which included intravenous chemotherapy (FUDR chemotherapy and leucovorin), as well as intra-arterial chemotherapy (cisplatin and mitomycin) to both my liver and pancreas.

The intra-arterial chemotherapy, in particular, was intense. But, it knocked my tumor markers down dramatically. I went through four rounds of intra-arterial treatment. I experienced side effects, including nausea, low blood cell and platelet counts, and hair loss. I also needed blood transfusions. But progressively, I started getting better and feeling stronger.

For more than two years, I returned to CTCA every month for five to six days at a time. I received chemotherapy intravenously and took advantage of all the supportive care services CTCA offered.

The naturopathic provider on my care team helped me cope with nausea by suggesting various supplements. Acupuncture also helped with hot flashes and night sweats, and the chiropractor at the hospital realigned my spine, which was out of whack from a sports injury. I also had massages. On the days when I’d have my massage and chiropractic adjustment, I felt so relaxed.

The spiritual support I received at the hospital helped renew my faith. And my mind-body therapist was a godsend to my mother and me. She’s somebody I felt comfortable talking to, and she helped me get through some really difficult times.

The first year of my treatment was really hard. In the second year, I felt as though my body regenerated itself. My energy level was great. Granted, it took me a couple of days to recoup after I received five days’ worth of chemotherapy. And some months were better than others. But overall, I had pretty normal energy three weeks out of the month.

During the treatment, I did a ton of juicing. That’s how I got a lot of my fruits. I juiced apples, carrots, red grapes, pineapple, strawberries, blueberries and cantaloupe. It was fabulous! I did it once a day. And when I was at the hospital, the culinary staff prepared my juices for me.

I had my first beer since I was diagnosed on the two-year anniversary of my fight. I couldn’t drink it for a while, and I didn’t want to. But two years is definitely a momentous thing. So two Guinnesses got cracked open. The next year, it was three.

Today, I follow a healthy diet and exercise, because I am borderline diabetic. In 2012, I stopped taking chemotherapy, and I have been returning to CTCA every six months for checkups.

Since my diagnosis, I have started golfing, which has become my new passion. I even walk the golf course and carry my own bag. It’s empowering for me to be able to do that. And when I’m not golfing, I’m at the beach. I’m like a kid: I’m not indoors until the sun comes down. I don’t want to miss a thing. I work out and jog/walk about a half-mile, when I feel up to it. A couple of times, I’ve even played basketball. It’s good for my body to do something different.

I’ve also started an initiative to raise awareness for pancreatic cancer. It began as the Purple Iris Brigade, and it became The Purple Iris Foundation in 2012. We’ve bought thousands of purple irises from the local garden club and planted them throughout the community, and we raise money for pancreatic cancer patients who can’t afford treatment. I also volunteer and participate in a couple of initiatives to bring awareness to pancreatic cancer.

One day in the winter of 2010, when I was 30 years old, I felt a sudden pain in my right side. The pain was sharp and started without notice. Because a snowstorm was on the way, a friend who is an emergency room physician urged me to go to the closest emergency room without delay and I followed her advice.

The doctor received the results of my blood test and he saw that my white blood cell count was extremely elevated. The doctor and others who saw those results were alarmed and asked the gynecologist on call to come see me right away. She drove through the snowstorm to the hospital, gathering information about my medical history on the way. Less than an hour after arriving at the hospital, I was in surgery.

When I woke from the surgery, the doctor told me that she’d removed one of my ovaries, which had been very infected. She gave me a strong antibiotic and sent a biopsy for analysis.

A week later, after spending several days recovering from the surgery, the gynecologist called to tell me that the pathology report had come back. The tissue was cancerous. The shock of this moment is indescribable—and yet, right away when you hear this news, you have to start digesting it and thinking about your next steps, which is exactly what I did.

Even in the midst of the shock I knew I wanted to speak with my physician friend, who could offer guidance. Together we found a surgeon, and within two weeks of my initial surgery, he performed a laparoscopic hysterectomy and an oophorectomy. He also did a procedure to determine the stage of the cancer. At that time, the cancer appeared to be contained to the remaining ovary, so he diagnosed me with stage IC ovarian cancer.

Soon after that surgery, I went to see a gynecologic oncologist at a large, reputable medical center in Maryland. She recommended three cycles of chemotherapy, a standard approach for ovarian cancer, which I received at a local clinic.

That treatment was difficult, and I experienced all the side effects typically associated with chemotherapy. I was nauseous. I lost my hair. I lost a lot of weight. But the chemotherapy was done soon enough and I was able to enjoy the summer with my daughters.

Around Christmas of 2010, I noticed a strange feeling on my left side. I thought perhaps I had a urinary tract infection, but an imaging scan showed that the cancer had returned and was now wrapped around my left ureter.

The same surgeon who did the oophorectomy and hysterectomy now removed as much of the tumor as possible laparoscopically. He also put a stent in my left ureter to connect my bladder and kidney.

After this procedure, I saw another specialist at a different hospital, who could actually feel that the tumor had already grown back. I had a CT scan that confirmed this suspicion. Between the surgery and this appointment, the tumor had returned. That was a devastating shock and took all of us, including the physician, by surprise. This cancer was extremely aggressive.

I then underwent three cycles of chemotherapy with second-line medications. After the third cycle, I had a strong allergic reaction to one of the intravenous drugs, and my doctor stopped the treatment completely.

But that event triggered my doctor to order a new imaging scan, which showed that the cancer had almost completely disappeared. Whatever remained was tiny and could be removed with surgery, and I had yet another procedure in which several areas that appeared suspicious were removed. None of what was removed was confirmed as cancerous. The doctor was taken aback and kept preparing me for evidence of microscopic disease. But even the microscopic analysis showed no sign of cancer.

My doctor recommended four weeks of radiation therapy to make sure the cancer was killed. The side effects were again difficult, but the cancer responded. At the same time, the stent that had been inserted during an earlier surgery was causing me pain throughout this time and I had to have it replaced every month or two. I was on a strong antibiotic because it kept becoming infected. And I was very weak from all the treatments. Each day was really about surviving, nothing more. My focus was on getting to the next day, and the day after that.

For a time, we were hopeful that the cancer was gone. Several CT scans examined by the radiologist showed no sign of cancer. But then on one visit he noticed a spot on my liver. That spot had actually been apparent on an earlier scan but no one had noticed it. The ovarian cancer had metastasized to my liver. I underwent surgery to remove the part of my liver housing the cancer.

During the next year, I was in and out of the hospital with infections. Finally the urologist decided to remove the stent altogether because the infections were so bad. And it turned out that I was fine without it. That was a major step forward. I was still weak from the disease and the treatments. But I was with my daughters all day long, and just stayed focused on keeping a normal routine for us at home.

Another follow-up scan soon revealed the cancer had returned in my liver. I had another surgery and then turned my focus to another phase of recovery. Once my energy  returned, my husband and I took a trip to Spain, which was wonderful. But when we returned I knew, I just knew, that my next scan would show the cancer had recurred. I was correct: the cancer was now in my liver and lymph nodes.

A friend in Texas told me her children’s piano teacher had gone to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I knew that I needed to talk to someone who was willing to think outside of the box, so I called. Very soon, I was on my way to CTCA® at Eastern Regional Medical Center in Philadelphia.

A friend traveled with me for my initial consultation, and we both felt this was the place. The doctors were willing to treat me, no one was telling me how long I had to live, and the atmosphere was warm and caring.

Dr. Chura told me that his goal was to get me back into remission. He spoke with me about genomic testing, which none of my previous physicians had done. He recommended chemotherapy with gemcitabine and bevacizumab, a drug that prior doctors had avoided because of the side effect risks. I stayed on these medications for nine months, a feat that was made possible in part due to the excellent supportive care I received at CTCA.

For the first time, I had professionals helping me manage the side effects. I saw a nutritionist, a naturopath, a massage therapist, and I received spiritual support, all within the walls of CTCA. And Dr. Chura was so supportive and encouraging. He truly cared about my life. He also included my husband, who joined us via conference calls at my big appointments because he couldn’t be there in person.

After the chemotherapy and then radiation, I began treatment with a drug that had been identified as appropriate for me through advanced genomic testing. With this approach, the tumor genome is analyzed. The results of this analysis identified a potential therapy that would target the tumor’s genetic mutation.  That testing led Dr. Chura to prescribe everolimus. Three months after beginning treatment with this medication, a follow-up scan showed no evidence of disease. And a few months later, the scan results were the same.

Five years after my initial diagnosis, it is hard to believe what I’ve been through. I had almost gotten used to the ordeal, the constant fear of recurrence, the treatments, the cycles of hope and despair.

Today, with my CTCA Care Team by my side, I am more hopeful than ever about the road ahead. The genomic testing done at CTCA assisted my doctors in prescribing the appropriate medication, and I will continue to take it for as long as I can.

Looking back, there are so many small miracles to be thankful for. Without that snowstorm, I may not have rushed to the emergency room and the situation could have worsened very quickly. And I had never heard of CTCA before my friend mentioned it. We don’t have a television at home so I hadn’t come across the commercials. But the care provided there has made a huge difference in my life. Prayers from our friends, the support of our church community, and our faith saw me through this incredibly difficult journey, especially when I was wavering.

Today my energy is restored and life is back to normal. I can run and play with my beautiful daughters. I love our family more than ever, and I am so grateful for returning to all that we love to do together, from reading stories at bedtime to going on adventures.

The experience these past five years changed me indelibly. I appreciate life more than ever. And I have learned to forgive and not be bitter about the past. It took cancer to teach me this, but I’m thankful for the lesson.

I still return to CTCA for check-ups, but it’s like traveling to a second home. Everyone knows me and we are all happy to see each other. There is an atmosphere of hope that I had not encountered previously and that I believe contributed to my healing. My goal is to be here for my children for as long as possible, and I am so glad to have so many people helping me get there.

I began 2001 going about my usual active lifestyle in Norman, Oklahoma. I was a "young" 52 years of age. I worked long hours at Tinker Air Force Base in an Industrial Engineering position as a planner, volunteered and taught in the elementary ministry area of Norman's Trinity Baptist Church, fished, rode my motorcycle and played competitive sports.

In early 2001, I was the only "old man" on a 4x4 basketball team of twentysomethings. My team, Glenn's Gunners, was the league champ, with a 20–0 record. However, I didn't feel totally well. I had chronic acid reflux, but a checkup showed I had perfect blood pressure and low cholesterol. My lab results were excellent.

Medication eliminated my acid reflux, and I felt better until one day when some popcorn got stuck in my lower esophagus and caused me great pain. My family physician ordered further tests, which led to an endoscopy and a stunning diagnosis—a stage III adenocarcinoma mass measuring over 7 centimeters by 3 centimeters in my lower esophagus, extending into my stomach with several enlarged lymph nodes.

It was determined that surgery was not an option and I was advised to find a clinical trial (experimental medicine). My wife of 28 years, Ann, immediately started to search for the "best" place for treatment.

Just as we were heading to one of the country's premier cancer hospitals, the staff there halted my admission until further tests could be done. However, the first gastroenterologist who diagnosed me, as well as experts at a leading medical center, deemed these tests unnecessary. They even said the tests could lead to potential complications that could delay or compromise my treatment. In fact, we were told any delay in starting treatment could be fatal.

We had never heard of Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) until Ann saw one of its television ads. She searched the Internet for more information about CTCA®, and after intense prayer and a miraculous sequence of events (that’s another story), it was very clear I was supposed to get treatment at CTCA.

After we spoke with the Oncology Information Specialists at CTCA, they immediately began my admission process and scheduled appointments for me to meet with the appropriate doctors at CTCA at Southwestern Regional Medical Center the following week.

From May through August 2001, we stayed in the CTCA guest hotel so that I could have round-the-clock medical care. CTCA doctors used state-of-the-art treatment and were very positive and compassionate. They also treated the "whole person" through nutrition and naturopathic counsel, and provided emotional and spiritual support. The entire staff—from top to bottom—was kind and caring. Our impression was that their employment seemed to be more of a "calling" than a job.

We also had a prayer support team of thousands around the world that Ann kept updated almost daily through an e-mail report called "Chuck G.'s 23rd Psalm Walk." I could not have gotten through the cancer experience without my faith in God.

My treatment consisted of three sessions of photodynamic therapy (PDT), a new treatment, at the time, for esophageal cancer. My PDT treatment was followed by six weeks of radiation and six months of an effective chemotherapy.

Due to the site of my cancer, I was unable to eat as I normally would, so I had PEG tube feedings for a while. Honestly, the treatment took its toll. I don't remember much about that summer; I spent most of it in bed and lost 47 pounds from an already, relatively lean body. Thankfully, Ann kept a journal detailing my walk through this difficult time.

It was a difficult time in my life. I simply trusted God, without any questions about "why." Psalm 23 became my lifeline. Proverbs 3:5–6 became Ann's lifeline.

By early October 2001, I was cancer free. I have remained cancer free ever since. I finished my last chemotherapy treatment the last week of November 2001. I returned to work part time in August of that year, with Ann driving me there and back. By January 2002, I was back to work full time and driving myself. That summer I was also back playing softball, even in an “all-night” tournament.

My recovery defies all statistics. But I agree with my doctor that "statistics mean nothing to believers." I eat a normal diet, have regained all the weight I lost and have gone from being unable to swallow water without great pain to eating steak without any problems! I still ride my motorcycle and fish, and have developed a love for snowmobiling. I recently retired from Tinker AFB and work part time for my neighbor's mechanical contracting company. Life is good.

I can't say enough about the doctors and nurses who cared for me at CTCA. I look forward to my checkup scopes with my doctor. A couple times a year, my esophagus has to be dilated (stretched) due to scarring from the aggressive treatment I received. But I consider it a minor inconvenience for a couple of days. That aggressive treatment saved my life.

My radiation oncologist and his staff administered my radiation so precisely that I have had no collateral damage to any of the tissues surrounding my cancer. I also had great confidence in my doctor because of his studious, unhurried, contemplative, kind demeanor. Equally important, the pain management staff did everything possible to relieve my pain and never quit until they found an effective medication for my extreme nausea. And Mickey and Wanda in the Outpatient Accommodations Department were very kind and accommodating.

A cancer diagnosis, even one as dire as mine, does not automatically mean life is over. There were many times I could have given up. But if I had, I would not have been able to be best man at my son's wedding in 2003; I would have missed years with my wife; and I would have missed the blessing of having my first grandchild, Brooklyn McKenzie, who was born on my birthday in 2006! And, I would not be able to encourage others in their cancer battle, including veterans of the Vietnam War like myself. I have so much admiration and respect for them.

Make no mistake about it—it is a battle. No one should fight it alone and it must be fought with doctors who are fully committed to winning the war. CTCA may not be for you; but it is worth your consideration. It certainly was the right place for me.

I am doing very well. After nearly 11 years since I completed treatment, cancer is no longer a fear. We take every opportunity we can to encourage other cancer patients. We are grateful for the blessings we have received.

I enjoy an active life and normal diet. Having come through the "valley of the shadow of death" during cancer treatment, I am amazed that my greatest health issues years later are hearing loss and total knee replacement. But you won't hear any complaints from me!

I am fully retired and enjoy the time I get to spend with Ann and my family. I am blessed to have three grandchildren, Brooklyn, Kayley and Joey. Since they live a block away from us, we're very involved in their lives. I still enjoy snowmobiling, four-wheeling and fishing in Colorado several times a year. And I am an avid Oklahoma Sooners fan. I remain active in my church, Trinity Baptist, as a member of the safety/security team, greeter and in children's church.

I'm grateful that the Lord gave me these past years. I'm living proof that only God knows the number of "all the days ordained for me" (Psalm 139:16). I thank God for each day He gives me.

When I was in my late 40s, I started to have some irregular bleeding, coupled with pain in the right side of my abdomen. The pain would come and go, but it always appeared in the same spot.

I’ve always avoided a nine-to-five desk job. I love to travel, and I love putting my creative and free spirit into my work. My job choices have enabled that, but also meant that I did not have insurance through an employer when I was in my late 40s. I was healthy and did my best to stay that way. But the spotting and pain called for medical attention, so I went to the free clinic near my home in Tennessee for a check-up. The most plausible explanation seemed to be that I was having premenopausal symptoms. I thought maybe it was a gallbladder problem and tried to manage it through dietary changes.

In June 2014, I had what I thought was a gallbladder attack, and this time, the pain became so severe that I could not even lie down. I went to the hospital, and the initial diagnosis there was a gallbladder attack. An ultrasound showed no evidence of inflammation, which could have meant my body was passing a kidney stone. The doctors there wanted to do an imaging scan, which I readily agreed to. The test revealed a baseball-sized tumor on my ovary that the doctors thought was probably cancerous. They scheduled me for surgery the following day.

The tumor was even larger than the scan indicated; it was about the size of a grapefruit. Two or three weeks later, I received the diagnosis: I had stage III ovarian cancer. I was at my job as marketing director for our county fair when I got the call. After my doctor gave me the news, my response to him was that I am a lover, not a fighter. I told him that I would dance with it. I would be a cancer dancer. That was my attitude the minute I found out, and it still is today.  

I had completely avoided searching for information about cancer online while I was awaiting the diagnosis, but now I started looking. My first search was about survival rates for ovarian cancer. My next search was looking for insights about how I survive ovarian cancer. The first article that popped up was about laughter. I took that article to heart. I find something to laugh about every day, and often tell people that I am laughing myself healthy.

I began chemotherapy with the oncologist near my home. But after a few rounds of treatment, I felt a need for an integrative approach. I was experiencing side effects like extreme fatigue, neuropathy and an altered sense of taste. I wanted help with managing side effects that took diet and other natural approaches into account.

I decided to inquire about integrative cancer treatment options and found Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). Although I had heard of CTCA®, I really knew nothing about its approach. But as I read, I felt strongly that I wanted to be a patient there. When I contacted someone there, it was with the intention not of checking it out or seeking a second opinion, but of going there for cancer care.

After an online chat with an Oncology Information Specialist, we spoke by phone, and soon enough, I had an appointment scheduled.

At my first appointment, I learned of a possible recurrence of the ovarian cancer in a lymph node near my breast, which was later confirmed by a PET scan. So, I had a lymph node biopsy followed by another surgery. After these procedures, I began taking doxorubicin, a chemotherapy drug. Later, I also had vaginal cuff radiation therapy, which I understood was a precautionary measure to help prevent recurrence of cancer in the cervix. In addition, after my second recurrence, I underwent radiation of a lymph node near my abdomen.

Chemotherapy was difficult at times. I developed bad rashes on my legs and still have some scars from that. Temsirolimus, a chemotherapy drug I began after radiation, led to blisters and peeling on my feet and underarms. But I feel the supportive care I received  helped decrease, both mentally and physically, the severity of the side effects. From the start of this regimen, my naturopathic provider suggested supplements to boost my strength and immunity. My dietitian created a food plan that that helped me eat better during chemotherapy treatment. I was able to continue working during my treatment. After cutting back on some teaching work for a period of time, I resumed a full schedule. 

The medical care itself was also top-notch. A genomic test found that I was a good candidate for everolimus, a drug normally prescribed for breast cancer. My most recent PET scans have shown that the cancer had not grown.

I had a fantastic team behind me at CTCA. I received quality medical care using advanced diagnostics and integrating innovative research, but I also received comprehensive supportive care, including massage, physical therapy, chiropractic care, acupuncture, mind-body therapy and much-needed time with a CTCA pastor. I also love participating in art therapy and bingo during my stays at CTCA.

The hardest part of my experience with cancer was knowing that others would not make it through unscathed. I’ve never asked, why me, about my suffering; I’ve only asked why I have been so blessed. And yet that feeling also strengthens me, because I know my time here is not done. Surviving cancer makes me want to share my story with others.

As a survivor, I can also say this: Cancer does not always end a life, but it always changes a life. It will dismantle you in some way, but the choice of how you rebuild is up to you. How strong? How well? You can take this experience and turn yourself into somebody who is a better version of you than before. I choose to be happy, and to find joy and love in each day.

It is also crucial to accept help when you need it. Sometimes, we are called on to be the helper. Other times, it is someone else’s role. If we deny assistance from others, then we deny them the opportunity. When others can help, we have to let them. That’s how we get through this journey called cancer. There are so many who have helped me, but my family and my best friend of 32 years have been my rocks.  Without them, I don’t know what I would have done.

It is strange to say, but going through cancer treatment has added richness to my life. In 2014, during the three weeks between chemotherapy treatments, my best friend and I traveled to England and Scotland for the two-week “Cancer Can Suck It” tour, and we did the trip again in 2015, that time to France and Scotland. The first year, I had to move at a slower pace than normal, but by the second year, with the help of the care I received at CTCA, I feel I was in much better shape. I love the adventures that have come as a result of both my attitude about cancer and the incredible support I’ve received.

As long as I’m alive, I will tell my story to anyone who may need to hear it.

For about three years, I battled an intermittent cough. It would turn up in winter and disappear by spring, then I would forget about it. But in the autumn of 2014, it came early. In October, my wife, Rita, called a local pulmonologist. The first appointment they could give us was three months away. So we waited.

In January 2015, I saw the doctor, who ran several tests, including a chest CT, which revealed a small nodule in my lung’s right lower lobe.

A little over three months later, I had a repeat CT scan. The results came in just before Memorial Day weekend, and the doctor recommended surgery to remove the nodule. I decided I wanted to get a second opinion.

We have friends who were treated at the Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in Tulsa, Oklahoma. They had shared with us the extent of the personalized care and attention they received there. Just as I pulled up the CTCA® website, the sister-in-law of one of those friends called. She was extremely encouraging, so I clicked on the chat feature on the CTCA website. After giving them my basic history, I was told that an Oncology Information Specialist would call. Almost immediately, the phone rang. The Oncology Information Specialist spent well over an hour, listening to my story and providing options. She emailed the consent form needed to obtain my medical records, which I signed and returned immediately. She managed to have all my records forwarded the next morning to my surgeon so he could review them and got approval from my insurance company. All this happened within 24 hours.

One week later, Rita and I were on a plane to Chicago. Even before the trip, the CTCA surgeon assigned to my care team called to speak with me. He had read in my history that I suffer from “white coat syndrome,” a condition that causes one's blood pressure to spike in doctors’ offices and hospitals, and he wanted to help me be relaxed when I arrived. This made me feel confident about seeking an opinion at CTCA. Additionally, one of my main criteria in selecting a place for treatment was the level of technology they were using and the potential for robotic surgery.

The moment I walked through the front door of CTCA, someone from the First Connections team came right up to us and asked how she might be of help. She became our immediate best friend, guiding us through the day by accompanying us where we needed to go.

Another one of our anchors was our patient navigator. She made sure I got answers to all of my questions, and took care of any issues that arose.  

Next, we met with my thoracic surgeon to discuss my options. He showed us the spot on my lung, and educated us not only about the nodule itself but about our options and the pros and cons of each, saying: “It’s your spot, it’s your lung, and it’s your decision.”

The way forward was neither simple nor clear cut. But I wanted the nodule removed, and Rita wanted a decisive answer as to its character and extent of involvement. So for us, that made the decision clear: We would opt to have the nodule completely removed. As we understood, a pathologist in surgery would immediately determine if it was malignant. If it was not, we would thank God and know it was gone. If it was malignant, my surgeon would immediately remove the entire lobe and lymph nodes, thus subjecting me to just one procedure and recovery instead of two.

The next day, my surgeon performed the surgery. He had a nurse call Rita in the waiting room while I was inside, so even though she was 600 miles away from home, she did not feel alone. The nodule was found to be cancerous, so both the lobe and nodes were removed. During surgery, they informed Rita when the initial incision was made, when cancer was confirmed, when they began to close and when I had been taken into recovery. According to Rita, it was incredibly comforting, even the call confirming cancer. She said she had never experienced anything like it.

My pain management that night was absolutely phenomenal. It is crucial that pain medication be taken in time. I was told that if a patient goes too long without it, he must take a higher dosage. If they had let that happen, I don’t think I would have been able to leave the hospital the very next day after my surgery. Upon dismissal, I only took hydrocodone 10 for pain and then used ibuprofen to slowly wean off the hydrocodone.

My surgeon was extremely attentive. He visited twice on the same evening of my surgery, four times the next day and again the following day before we flew home. Later, when the pathology report came back saying they had gotten all the cancer, he called us directly with the wonderful news.

Since then, I’m enjoying every day I’ve been given. I feel quite young for 65 and thankful for my incredible wife, our two children and our granddaughter. I spend my free time working in the garden, enjoying the beauty of nature, or helping Rita with her wedding cake business, which she established after retiring as a nurse.

In looking back on my experience with CTCA, Rita and I have only wonderful things to say. The coordination of the patient’s treatment usually falls onto the caregiver, and CTCA truly understands this. They take care of the caregiver, knowing that in this way, they are actually taking care of the patient.

When my wife attended nursing school 40 years ago, she was taught to treat the entire patient—not just the disease, but also the entire human being. At CTCA, it is as if we have stepped back in time to that model, and yet forward into time with the technology used to treat my cancer. I do not have the words to express our gratitude for the care we received at CTCA and from my surgeon. We were educated and allowed to make an informed decision regarding treatment. I thank God for giving me back my health, and for people such as my surgeon and medical oncologist, who use skill, knowledge and technology to heal their fellow human beings.

When I was diagnosed with stomach cancer in April 2005, it came as a complete shock. I was 48 at the time, and I thought I was pretty healthy. The biggest health problem I had was trouble swallowing. I felt like things got stuck in my throat when I ate. Otherwise, I had no pain. But my wife Patty was concerned. She got me to see a gastroenterologist. He did an endoscopy and found a nasty spot, which he biopsied for testing. When the test results came back, I got the news that it was cancer.

The gastroenterologist then sent me to a local hospital, where I scheduled an appointment for surgery. But Patty and I really didn’t like the way we were treated there. We felt like cattle…just a number.

Then on a Sunday afternoon, the week before I was to have my surgery, we got a call from my sister-in-law. She had seen a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) and thought it was a hospital we should check out. Patty and I called CTCA that day and spoke to an Oncology Information Specialist to learn more. Needless to say, we cancelled my surgery at the local hospital and decided to seek a second opinion at CTCA.

After my insurance had approved me to go to CTCA, Patty and I were on a plane to Chicago within a week to visit the CTCA hospital in northern Illinois. We soon discovered why traveling more than 400 miles from our home in Cortland, Ohio was worth it.

The experience at CTCA was so different from where I was at previously. CTCA specifically catered my care to me. All along, my doctors were very good at explaining things and keeping me informed. They told me how my tumor markers were doing, how the scans looked, etc. They spent a great deal of time with me. As long as I had questions, my doctors would stay there and give me all of the information I asked for and more. That made a big difference. They were truly concerned about me.

My treatment plan consisted of chemotherapy first, then surgery. In addition, I received radiation treatment. I appreciated how thorough my doctors were with my treatment. I remember telling Patty, “I’ve already had chemo and surgery. Why do I need radiation too?” But then Dr. Eden, my radiation oncologist, explained everything to us. He told me the cancer could come back, but if I received radiation therapy, it would reduce the chances of it returning. That’s all he needed to say to change my mind.

The holistic approach CTCA took to help me fight cancer was much more than simply treating the disease. For example, I learned about what to eat from dietitians. My naturopathic oncology provider also recommended vitamins and other natural supplements to ease treatment side effects and keep me strong. The pastoral care team at the hospital was fantastic too! They prayed with me, which meant a lot.

We were really impressed with the fact CTCA had worked with hotels in the area to set up special rates for patients. Financially that really helped, as did everything CTCA did to set up my travel. When I went through chemotherapy, Patty and I traveled to CTCA every three weeks. For the six weeks I went through radiation treatment, I stayed in the outpatient lodging the hospital offers. Staying there was helpful because it was affordable and close to the hospital. Everyone else staying there was going through cancer treatment too. We motivated each other.

I feel better now. Everything is good! I leaned on God and my faith to get through it. And I had great support from Patty. She was always there for me. One thing she always said when I needed to go to CTCA for treatment was, “We’re going up for chemo” or “we’re going up for radiation.” She truly went through it with me.

Cancer brought a world of change for me. For a long time, I felt stuck in my job. I felt an obligation to the people that worked there to keep things going, so I stayed. When I got too sick to keep going and managing the business, I got out of the job. Once I got better, I didn’t want to go back. There was a lot of stress and I figured I was ready to move on and try something new. Eventually I started my own business.

Cancer definitely gave me a new outlook to see what’s important, and the important thing is family and doing things you want to do. Money is not important…things are not important.

I firmly believe God still has work for me to do, and a lot of that is giving hope to other people. I am a pastor at my church. To help others, give them hope and let them know there is light at the end of the tunnel is awesome.

Since I completed treatment, I’ve gotten to enjoy some incredible moments in my life. I officiated at my daughter’s wedding. I got to walk her up the aisle, then turn around, stand up there and marry her off too. Patty and I also celebrated our 25th anniversary. In June 2010, I went back to CTCA to celebrate my five-year anniversary as a cancer survivor at the hospital’s annual Celebrate Life® event.

I continue to manage my own electronic security business, in addition to do handyman jobs and woodworking. My life is full of faith and love for my family.

When I was 49 years old, I had a routine prostate specific antigen (PSA) test with a urologist near our home in Bloomington, Illinois, as I had been doing for several years. That year, the score had jumped significantly from the prior year and my urologist recommended that I have another PSA in three months. When my score jumped significantly again over that three-month period, my urologist recommended I have a biopsy.

About five days after the biopsy, my wife, Linda, and I returned to the urologist’s office. He told me that the tissue had tested positive for cancer. Linda and I looked at each other and asked, “What do we do from here?”

Somehow, we weren’t shaken by the diagnosis. We maintain strong Christian beliefs, and that may explain why we weren’t scared. At the very least, it helped us face this situation with confidence and resolve.

Around that same time, I developed a series of infections as a result of the biopsy. I was lying in bed, feeling miserable and dreading the prospect of surgery. And that’s when I saw the commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA).

I called CTCA® right away, and the person I spoke with was so reassuring that I left the phone call thinking that I would be crazy not to at least obtain a second opinion there. Linda and I traveled to the location in Chicago, about two and a half hours from our home, and spent about three days there for the initial consultation.

From the beginning, we were so impressed. The doctors at CTCA worked as a team—and not just the doctors, but the entire staff. And each person I met with individually—the medical oncologist, the radiologist, the urologist and others—took the time to listen to me, to explain the issues and considerations carefully, and to respond to any questions that Linda and I had. I was never treated as a patient who couldn’t understand complicated medicine. I was a partner in my care. I was a vital part of the decision-making process.

What’s more, my Care Team presented me with options. We had lengthy conversations about the potential merits of each treatment approach. Again, that made me a participant in my own care, not a helpless bystander.

My treatment began with hormone therapy. I received an injection of Lupron and then returned a few weeks later to begin daily radiation. When the radiation was finished, I had another Lupron injection.

During the radiation treatment, Linda and I stayed at CTCA. We had a fantastic time there. We went to the Gurnee Mills Mall, we did power walking and we went to the Milwaukee Music Festival. Linda kept me active. We met wonderful people, patients and caregivers, who became friends.

The main side effect from the treatment was fatigue, which accumulated during the course of radiation therapy. Hormonal therapy also brought some interesting changes, including hot flashes. Managing those temporary hormonal issues was a little challenging at times, perhaps more so for Linda than for me, but we got through it and found the humor inside of it.

For me, CTCA was a healing environment, not just for my body, but also for my soul. I felt well cared for there. I felt strengthened and empowered. We met people with whom we could speak about our faith, which was also a comfort.

Now when I speak with other people facing a cancer diagnosis, I always urge them to at least obtain a second opinion at CTCA. The care I received is beyond what I ever thought I would find.

CTCA also makes patients part of their care. It eases that part of us that is often on edge when it comes to health care. As a patient, your disease is managed but you are not managed, you are part of the team.

I am also grateful to my amazing caregiver, Linda. Caregivers are often the unsung heroes of cancer care, and I know that I benefited from her presence, her support and her care. And CTCA took care of her, too, which put me at ease.

I had no idea that anything was amiss with Dean. He had his PSA test just like he does every year, but this time, the score was too high, and it had increased significantly from a year earlier. I knew we had to do something.

Although the doctor alluded to the fact that there were options for treatment, he really focused on surgery. I was concerned about this approach because Dean has diabetes and I wasn’t sure how a surgical procedure would impact that aspect of his health care.

I had never experienced having a loved one with cancer before, and no one close to us was going through the same experience. So we felt a bit alone and shocked at first. Then Dean found CTCA.

Dean and I always approach life’s challenges together, and this time was no different. I was with him at all the consultations he had before his treatment began, and at every appointment afterwards.

The nurses and other clinicians at CTCA were extremely friendly and, most importantly, patient with our questions. I noticed this with his radiation oncologist in particular. He spoke to me as an equal, not as someone beneath him or as someone he didn’t really have time for. He never brushed me aside. In fact, it was quite the opposite. He made me feel comfortable with asking questions. He wanted my input. I was very surprised by this. We are not very accustomed to having patients included in their own care, let alone the caregiver. Yet here we were, fully participating.

Whenever I had a question or concern, I felt that I could approach Dean’s Care Team and feel listened to. I formed a good relationship with Dean’s radiation oncologist, who would thank me when I approached him. I always felt that Dean’s radiation oncologist was making sure that he was taken care of.

Dean and I took a vow to love each other and care for each other for better and for worse. He needed me to be there for him, and that was my focus as his caregiver: just being there. I encouraged him to go for walks to help allay the fatigue and so that he didn’t get stuck in bed not doing anything, which can lead to a depressed state. I tried to keep him motivated to be active. And at the same time, I learned to balance this motivation with also allowing him to rest because the radiation made him tired.

During treatment, he was sensitive in ways he usually is not. I’ve never had to tiptoe around his emotions, but with this treatment, I had to do that a little bit. I was a little confused and alarmed at first, but I stayed focused on what I needed to do as his caregiver, which was to just be there. We learned to have humor about the situation and now we laugh about it easily.

As a caregiver, it is important to remember that whatever is going on with your loved one as they go through cancer treatment is not personal to you. If they are sad or mad or having a hard time, it has nothing to do with you, and you have to just keep being there for them. You have to keep supporting them. When someone is not feeling like himself or herself, often what the person needs is to be reassured of your love. That was hard for me at times because it was like the Dean I knew was not the Dean I was caring for. And yet he was, and I had to remember that this was the man I vowed to support.

Dean and I are back to life as usual. He continues his work, and we enjoy time with our three grown children. We are very active in our church.

When we go to CTCA for Dean’s follow-up visits, his medical oncologist always asks if I have any questions or concerns. Even years later now, she still asks. Such care makes me feel very comfortable. She is truly amazing. I’m very thankful for CTCA.

My first encounter with breast cancer came in 2010, when I was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or stage 0 breast cancer. At that time, I decided to have a lumpectomy to remove the small portion of my breast that was affected, followed by eight weeks of radiation and treatment with the estrogen-blocking medication tamoxifen. I had hoped that the risk of any future malignancy arising in my breast was slim after that course of action.

And yet five years later, in July 2015, my routine annual mammogram showed something suspicious so I returned for a biopsy. The suspicion was confirmed: I had developed DCIS again in one breast. This time, it was closer to my chest wall.

The diagnosis took me and my husband, Mark, by surprise for two reasons. First, I was coming up on the five-year mark of having no evidence of disease, so I thought my chances of the cancer returning were slim. Second, Mark was coping with his own cancer diagnosis. In the fall of 2014, he’d been diagnosed with stage IIB prostate cancer. Now it was both of us. We had taken our vows to be there for each other in sickness and in health so many years ago, but I don’t think we’d ever dreamed that we’d both be coping with the cancer at the same time. Still, we knew that we would get through this together.

After several months of research and feeling unsure of what to do, Mark had finally decided to pursue treatment at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). His prostatectomy was scheduled for September 2015.

Because of Mark’s experience at CTCA® and the convenience of being treated at the same place, I decided to pursue treatment there, too. From the start, I was impressed by how fast we were able to get information, results and appointments. At CTCA, everything is under one roof, and we spent very little time waiting. CTCA also has systems in place for accessing your test results and other information about your diagnosis. When we have questions, we get responses quickly. When we come to CTCA, the staff remembers our names and why we are there. I just felt like I was in the right place.

Because this was my second bout with DCIS and an MRI showed an area of concern on the other breast, I decided to have a double mastectomy. My surgeon was ready to biopsy the area seen on the MRI and take a more minimal surgical approach, but I felt that a double mastectomy was the best option for me. I knew that I did not want to go through cancer a third time. I was grateful that my surgeon honored my treatment decision, and the surgery was scheduled for two weeks after Mark’s procedure.

Even though the malignant cells were in a difficult place, my surgeon was able to perform nipple-sparing surgery, which was integral to the reconstructive surgery I would have later. I had been able to handle the logistics when Mark was having his surgery two weeks before mine, but now we both headed home for six weeks of recovery together.

The recovery took longer than I expected, but my Care Team at CTCA put me at ease. After two weeks at home, I started to feel like the healing was taking forever. But the physician assistant, in particular, really helped settle my worries.

At the same time, I wanted to be there for Mark, who was having his own challenges. Prostatectomies cause intense changes, and returning to normal can take a while. We needed to be there for each other. We knew we would get through it. We knew that the weeks spent together on the couch watching television would come to an end. But for a while there, it was difficult. Thankfully, we were able to be upset together and then laugh together, and come through it together.

Through it all, we had the support of CTCA. Sometimes the questions come only after you return home from your appointment. We have always had all our needs addressed. We have an unusual situation, where two patients are each other’s caregivers, but we always book our appointments at the same time to make traveling more convenient. I feel we’ve received excellent counseling on nutrition (Mark likes to joke that all the mice have left our kitchen because there’s nothing left to eat), and natural approaches to alleviating pain. I also believe that God helped me and Mark through this journey, and I am grateful for his guidance through it all.

Going through cancer changes you. You learn to appreciate each day a bit more. You are more thankful. You understand that life’s challenges are really opportunities. Going through cancer as a couple changes your relationship. It has made us stronger, and I’m so glad for that.

Today, we try to make a difference wherever we go. No matter who we come across or where we are, we try to carry good things with us. We share our story with as many people as possible to give hope to others.

In May 2016, I completed a deep flap reconstructive surgery, and life is feeling back to normal. Then again in the fall of 2016, I had a follow-up reconstructive surgery. These surgeries helped me achieve the results I had hoped for when we started this journey. I feel that my reconstructive surgeon’s high standard of work has contributed greatly to me feeling comfortable in my own skin again despite a radical surgery. Our sons are grown up and starting their own families, and Mark and I are looking forward to many years of happiness together, as well as seeing our gold leaves on the Trees of Life in a few years at Celebrate Life®.

I’ve always had an active and full life. I’ve worked for years in the restaurant business, owning a casual family dining restaurant where we made all of our food from scratch. I raised two sons and now have four grandchildren. We are a very close family.

So in October 2001, when I found a lump in my breast and was diagnosed with breast cancer, I knew I had to fight it. I wouldn’t give in to cancer. I underwent surgery (lumpectomy), chemotherapy and radiation. A year later, my doctors told me there was no evidence of disease. As you can imagine, I was extremely happy with that news.

I continued seeing my doctor for regular follow-up appointments to monitor my health and make sure the cancer didn’t return, or if it did, that it could be caught early. Shortly after my 50th birthday, almost 10 years from my first diagnosis, I found another lump. A biopsy confirmed it was cancer. The tumor was the size of a softball in my left breast and was fast growing. My cancer was diagnosed as “infiltrating ductal carcinoma,” one of the most common types of breast cancers that quickly spreads to surrounding breast tissues.

Once again, my cancer was treated with both chemotherapy and radiation therapy. However, this time, after completing chemotherapy, I made the decision to have a double mastectomy, followed by 24 rounds of radiation therapy. After completing all my treatments, I knew I was going to pursue my reconstructive surgery options. But I gave it a solid year and did all my research before moving forward with surgery in 2013.

About six months after my reconstruction surgery, I started having fluid problems on my left side. I was experiencing lymphedema, which I understand is common and most likely caused by the removal of my lymph nodes. I was told that it resulted from a blockage in my lymphatic system and prevented my lymph fluid from draining. This fluid buildup led to swelling in my arm.

I tried different treatments, including a surgery to remove the pocket of fluid, but nothing seemed to help. My pain was constant, and I felt so bloated. My daily activities, like getting dressed or even driving a car, were affected. I missed riding my horses because I couldn’t use both arms to mount the horse. I was feeling depressed that I was going to have to live with the pain and swelling.

Then in November 2015, my daughter-in-law saw a video on Facebook that provided information about a surgical procedure being done at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) for the treatment of lymphedema. She tagged me, and I watched the video, and I was so interested that I called almost immediately to learn more.

Within weeks after my initial call, I was at the hospital near Chicago for tests and appointments to meet with my doctors and care team members. The bottom line is that I was looking for hope, and to see if the surgery that I learned about could alleviate or get rid of my lymphedema. After a thorough evaluation by the microsurgeon who performs the surgery, I was ecstatic to learn that I was a candidate for the procedure. Prior to actually undergoing the surgery, my surgeon helped me manage my expectations and what, realistically, I could expect. He let me know I wasn’t necessarily going to see immediate results, but that I would more than likely see improvement over time. I totally understood, and was excited about moving forward.

In February 2016, I returned to CTCA® for my surgery. The actual name of my procedure is called lymphaticovenular bypass surgery. From how it was explained to me by my surgeon, he created a bypass to nearby healthy veins, so fluid could drain to relieve the symptoms of my lymphedema. It all sounded great. I left the technical work to my doctors and focused on staying positive.

Understanding that I might not see results from six months to a year, I was thrilled when, less than a month after surgery, I could already see the difference. My pain was gone. I was able to once again wear jewelry. I could get my fingers around my opposite wrist, which I couldn’t do before. The improvement in my condition also inspired me to become more active. I am running 5Ks and kayaking. I feel good.

I am back doing the things I love. Horses are a huge part of my life, since I have been around them since childhood. I am looking forward to once again riding horses with the freedom and confidence that I had before taking this cancer journey. I am now at a point in my life where I am really assessing my life. I want to do things that really make me happy. As I look to the future, I am excited knowing that the possibilities are truly endless.

In 2008, I noticed that my voice began to sound different. I began experiencing a sore throat. Knowing something was wrong, I went to see my primary care physician to help alleviate my symptoms. After the exam, I was diagnosed and treated for allergies.

Over the next few months, I noticed the discomfort slowly progress to a stabbing pain in my ear. The increased pain caused me to withdraw from many activities. Then I started to feel like I was losing my hearing. I went to a new primary care physician, and the doctor felt a swollen gland in my neck. The doctor referred me to see an ear, nose and throat specialist (ENT).

The ENT performed a biopsy on the lymph gland on the right side of my neck. The doctor called the next day and asked me to come in. At the appointment, the ENT told me I had cancer and it was at the base of my tongue. The specialist recommended a radical neck dissection, which would remove my jugular vein, lymph nodes and, potentially, a portion of my tongue.

I went home and felt so overwhelmed. My mother had cancer, so I was no stranger to the disease, but I knew nothing about tongue cancer. I reached out to my friends and family for advice and prayers.

I also started calling around and seeing other doctors, but I wasn’t satisfied by what I found. My good friend, Patti, was out talking to other head and neck patients and researching treatment options. One day, we found an envelope that my brother had received from Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) after he had been diagnosed with cancer. After looking through all the information, I decided to call CTCA®.

My initial consultation visit at the CTCA location in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was scheduled for August 2009. The moment I walked through the front doors of CTCA, I felt a sense of peace. I was so impressed with the staff. The center was organized, and I had a schedule of doctors and clinicians I would see during my evaluation. I was very impressed by the level of detail and care that went into planning my treatment. I learned that the team of experts worked together to provide me personalized care. I felt a huge weight lifted off my shoulders.

Through my evaluation, I learned that I had stage IV tongue cancer. I started treatment in August 2009, and I stayed in the guest facilities for over three months. I went to the hospital daily, Monday through Friday, for treatments and supportive care therapies. The team recommended that I receive chemotherapy and radiation at the same time. Surgery was not recommended because it may be physically disabling and may have a significant impact on my speech and ability to swallow.

The first step was that a feeding tube was surgically inserted into my abdomen to deliver food directly to my stomach. Since I had tongue cancer, my doctors knew that swallowing would become difficult for me during treatment. I learned that it is important that cancer patients maintain their strength by getting proper nutrition and hydration throughout cancer treatment. I also had a port placed for the chemotherapy to be delivered.

The treatment plan included radiation therapy every day. Once a week, I received chemotherapy. The chemotherapy caused me severe nausea and vomiting, but I worked closely with supportive therapy clinicians to manage my symptoms. My salivary glands were also affected from treatments, and I experienced difficulties swallowing. I went to see an oncology rehabilitation therapist and a speech therapist to manage my quality of life.

In total, I received 30 rounds of radiation and nine rounds of chemotherapy. I was on a feeding tube for four years and received daily total parenteral nutrition. I received speech therapy for three years to strengthen my tongue so I could eat whole foods again. It was a long and hard four years, but the support of other patients at CTCA helped me continue to stay positive. The spirit inside the hospital is contagious, and the positivity is all around you.

The stage and type of cancer that I had doesn’t have a great survival rate. Sometimes people give up fighting. Others give up while in recovery. After chemotherapy, my hearing was affected and I needed hearing aids. I spent four years with a feeding tube. All this could have overwhelmed me or made me feel like quitting. But the support from patients at CTCA, as well as my caregiver, Patti, kept me going. I felt secure in knowing that my care team at CTCA was there during one of the most difficult moments in my life and fought alongside me, every step of the way.

Today I am a survivor. I go to CTCA once a year for follow-up appointments. I know I am so blessed to be here, and I don’t take tomorrow for granted.

In September 2015, I celebrated five years of survivorship at Celebrate Life in Tulsa, along with 190 other five-year cancer survivors.

Now that I am retired, I am an avid photographer, and I love nature photography. My photos are how I show others God’s beauty. I see the miracles in life by examining the intricacies of nature that we often miss by just moving through our daily lives. I enjoy traveling, and I capture the beauty around me through my lens.

I also use these photographs to make greeting cards. I have donated my cards to CTCA patients as a way to give back and provide hope for those still fighting. I am working on writing a book to share my story and help others with head and neck cancer. I feel like I have a lot to share, and I have a lot of reasons to give back.

Late in 2008, I began having pain in my back. I thought it may be due to kidney stones, but an examination at a local hospital did not show any sign of that problem. The pain continued, and I went to see a gastroenterologist, who did a computed tomography (CT) scan. That imaging test showed a 4.5-centimeter mass on the tail of my pancreas and lesions in my liver.

I needed to have a biopsy, and the gastroenterologist recommended an oncology clinic. But I knew right away where I wanted to go.

Years earlier, my father had been diagnosed with bladder cancer. After his surgery, I did some research and found Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). We brought my father there, and I saw how compassionate the care was. The staff cared for the whole patient; they didn't just treat the cancer.

Now, 13 years later, I needed the same help we’d found for my father. I knew that I wanted to go to CTCA®.

Surgery was not an option when I began treatment at CTCA. The tumor was too large and was connected to blood vessels, and I had metastasis in my liver. My care team recommended intra-arterial chemotherapy, which delivers chemotherapy straight to the tumor. High doses of chemotherapy are targeted at the cancer, reducing exposure to unaffected areas. The doctors thought this approach could help shrink the tumor and possibly allow for surgery later.

I had several intra-arterial procedures under the care of my radiation oncologist and medical oncologist. After the sixth procedure, there was no visible sign of cancer in the liver anymore. For the following six months, I had chemotherapy infusions once a month. About a year after arriving at CTCA, the tumor on my pancreas had shrunk to the size of a pea.

After these treatments, I continued to come for check-ups. For about a year, there was no activity visible on imaging scans. But then, again almost two years to the day after starting treatment, a CT scan showed the cancer was growing again. But the tumor was small enough to be operable now. My care team decided to try surgery, and I agreed. The procedure, which removed the tumor, was followed with six weeks of daily radiation, and chemotherapy once a week.

Getting through treatment wasn’t easy. I was unable to work during the intra-arterial chemotherapy. There were times when I felt depressed. I was fatigued and lost my appetite during chemotherapy.

But I was surrounded by people who supported me. My entire family, about 20 people, came with me to CTCA for my first visit. My wife, Mary, sat next to me during all of the four-hour chemotherapy infusions. When I was at home not feeling well, my little granddaughter, Madelyn, tried to take care of me, bringing me blankets and anything else she thought I might need. My children moved home to help out there. At CTCA, other patients helped me stay positive.

My care team was also monitoring me during my treatment. My naturopathic oncology provider suggested supplements that, although I was unable to tolerate during my treatment, I am taking now. Acupuncture helped combat some side effects, and massages helped me relax. The chemotherapy nurses would sit and talk with me during infusions. The technician who did my first bone scan could see that I was scared and anxious. She stopped her work to say a prayer with me, which brought me comfort.

When I first met my medical oncologist, I told her that I was going to be her next five-year survivor. I knew that I had to manage my expectations because I had pancreatic cancer. But in 2014, I participated in the Celebrate Life® ceremony for five-year survivors at CTCA. I made it.

After I was told that I had no evidence of disease, my three children told my wife and me that they were going to have babies. Today, I am a grandfather to seven grandchildren. I am now nearly a nine-year survivor, have been done with treatment for over five years and continue with regular follow-up visits. I feel that I am here today because of the attentive and persistent care that I received at CTCA.

In 2010, I was experiencing bouts of not feeling well. My fingers were numb, and I had swelling in various parts of my body. I thought maybe I was having an allergic reaction. I went to the allergist and my primary care doctor, but they couldn’t diagnose the issue. I began feeling better, and I went on a vacation that I had planned earlier in the year, to the Bahamas. But as soon as I got home I was feeling sick again. I still didn’t know what was wrong, so I prayed to God that he would show me what was ailing me.

In August 2010, I was working and driving a truck about 90 miles from home. My right side started hurting, and then I got a terrible headache. I went straight home and got into bed. After staying there more than a day, my wife, Carolyn, became concerned and took me to the emergency room. At first I didn't want to go, but I'm glad I did. I was admitted to the hospital. After many tests, including a CT scan, we found that I had cancer in my small intestine. I got transferred to another hospital, and they ran test after test. It was soon discovered that I had a neuroendocrine tumor (NET), an abnormal growth that begins in the neuroendocrine cells. It is not a common tumor type.

I spent about a month in the hospital. My doctors performed surgery to remove the tumor in my small intestine, but they discovered that I also had cancer in my liver. I tried a treatment using nuclear medicine, but it was too painful for me.

When I was stable, I went home and later followed up with a medical oncologist the hospital referred to me. I started getting a chemotherapy injection three times a week.

I began to pray, asking God what I should do. My wife and the rest of my family were also praying for me. They reminded me that God had every situation under control. One day, I was talking to my pastor and telling him what was going on with my health. He suggested that maybe I needed a second opinion. Then he said he saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). He told me there was a hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma. I thanked him for his recommendation, but since I lived in Houston, Texas, I didn’t see how traveling to Tulsa would be a possibility.

One day after feeling frustrated, I decided to call CTCA®. I was on the phone with an Oncology Information Specialist (OIS), and we talked for over three hours. She took all my information and told me her team would do all the leg work, including obtaining my medical records and handling my travel arrangements. I got off the phone and, after talking to my wife, we decided to check it out. The OIS rep called back an hour later and said my insurance had been approved. She asked how soon I wanted to come. I was surprised that I didn’t have to wait for an appointment and that they would work with my schedule. I was on short-term disability at work, so I had some freedom to travel.

In August 2011, my wife and I flew to Tulsa. When we got to the Tulsa airport, a CTCA employee was waiting there to pick us up. We got to CTCA late that night, but the staff had arranged for us to stay onsite in the guest quarters. By that point, everyone we had met was so kind and everything they had promised me was accurate. But I am a skeptical person, so I kept expecting that everything was too good to be true.  

The next morning, I had a schedule for all of my appointments. We had breakfast that morning in the cafeteria. I was impressed that the hospital food was good and affordable. I then met with my care team members and completed tests and scans. I was excited to meet my medical oncologist. We talked for more than 30 minutes, discussing my symptoms and reviewing my medical records. I told him about the pain I experienced when receiving nuclear medicine, and he quickly was able to diagnose the issue. The doctor took time to explain my cancer to me and answer all my questions. He even gave me printouts of information that was relevant to me and my cancer.

After the test results were back, we worked together to decide on a treatment plan that was right for me. I was going to continue receiving a chemotherapy injection, but it would be once every three weeks. I also underwent surgery on my hemorrhoids, which had developed as a result of my cancer and had been an uncomfortable issue for me. CTCA believes in an integrated approach to cancer care, and I was able to see clinicians to help me manage my symptoms and improve my quality of life. I received nutrition therapy, naturopathic medicine, mind-body medicine and spiritual support services. These supportive therapies were an important part of my healing journey and helped contribute to my wellness.

In February 2012, I was feeling so good that I went back to work. My employer was very accommodating and allowed me the time off I needed to fly to Tulsa for treatment. Eventually, I traveled to the hospital every four weeks. CT scans showed that my tumor was shrinking. I prayed and thanked God for his grace.

Then my medical oncologist told me he was transferring to the new CTCA hospital being built in Newnan, Georgia. I was disappointed because I really felt connected to him. I talked to CTCA about my concerns, and my care team made it possible for me to also transfer to the hospital near Atlanta. I went in for my first appointment in the new hospital, and I was so pleased. The hospital was brand new, but the culture and values were still the same. I continued to receive the same warm care that I grew to rely on at the Tulsa hospital. Being in a new place reconfirmed what I already knew, that all the CTCA hospitals are special. 

CTCA is taking care of me, and so is God. God has put the right people and doctors in my life. I am doing wonderful. My cancer is stable. I continue to take two shots once a month to help control my tumor growth. Once every three months, I get scans to check my cancer. I am living with cancer and managing it. My quality of life is good, and I am so thankful. My medical oncologist has presented me with new treatment options. I never feel forced to change anything. It is always my choice, and I prefer to stick with what is working.

In March 2017, I went to Celebrate Life® at the hospital in Newnan. It is a day to commemorate a major milestone for many patients celebrating their five-year anniversaries as cancer survivors. I know I was blessed to be there.

I joined Cancer Fighters® at CTCA to give back. I see new people coming to CTCA who are scared and unsure. I want to support them and help others. I used to tell others that my body has cancer but I don’t. I never forget where I came from and how far I have come. I am a people person, and I believe that connecting and talking with someone could make all the difference in the world for that person. I hope my story can help others facing uncertainty with their cancer diagnosis. I am sharing my story in hopes that it could have a positive impact on others who are going through the cancer journey, too.

Today, I feel like I live life more passionately. I make the most of my days and enjoy the milestones, both big and small. Since my diagnosis, I have gotten to watch my granddaughter graduate high school. I also got to attend my granddaughter’s wedding.  I recently celebrated my 20th wedding anniversary with my wife, Carolyn. I credit CTCA with helping me be there for these major events. I would also like to thank my pastor, his wife and all who prayed for me through this journey.

In next few years, I plan to retire after driving a truck for over 25 years. I have started doing photography, and I really enjoy it. I like to see people’s lives through the lens. It is a connection to others, and it captures memories so we can remember the great times. After I retire, I want to travel and see the world. I thank God and CTCA for the future that I have ahead of me.

My first experience with breast cancer was in 1998, when I was 35 years old. My two older sisters had been diagnosed with breast cancer in their early 40s, so I had started having routine mammograms earlier than is typically recommended. That year, my mammogram showed calcifications, and because my doctor knew my family history, he did a biopsy and confirmed that I had breast cancer. I had a mastectomy, chemotherapy and took tamoxifen for five years. In 2004, underwent a prophylactic mastectomy and hysterectomy and had genetic testing. I recovered from the treatment and had no visible signs of cancer for years.

Then, in 2011, more than 13 years after my first diagnosis, I found a lump on my neck and in a few places on my chest above my breast implants. A general surgeon near my home in Franklin, North Carolina, did a needle biopsy, but the results were inconclusive, even with multiple doctors examining the tissue, so I had the lumps surgically removed.

Shortly after finding the lump, I had an incident, possibly a stroke, and ended up in the emergency room. An x-ray showed pleural effusion around my lungs, with a partially collapsed lung and a paralyzed diaphragm. The diagnosis quickly became conclusive: I was having a recurrence of breast cancer.  After further testing I was told that the cancer had spread.

I had chemotherapy, a different regimen than I’d received in 1998, with the same group of doctors who’d treated me originally. I also began taking a medication for bone building.

After five months of treatment I decided to seek a second opinion.

I had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) on television and decided to call. My daughter chatted online with a representative. It became clear to me that CTCA® might be an option.

During the initial three-day consultation, the doctors I met at CTCA were willing to try something different from what others had recommended. I was sick and in bad shape, but these doctors treated me differently.

I began taking capecitabine (Xeloda) and also an estrogen-blocking drug, which helped stabilize the disease. I traveled to the facility in Goodyear, Arizona every three months for just over two years. In addition to the chemotherapy and estrogen inhibitors, I underwent seven weeks of radiation aimed at a small area in my sternum, staying in Arizona three months in late 2013 for the treatment. The time passed by quickly, in part because of the friends that I made during that time.

For a year, I stopped the estrogen inhibitor pills and took monthly injections instead. Later, when I transferred to the facility in Georgia, I added back aromatase inhibitor pills to my treatment regimen.

CTCA gave me both hope and healing. Our family has so much gratitude for the care that I have received there. Now, as part of the Cancer Fighter Care Network, I can provide that same hope and encouragement to others living with cancer.  

Around the time that my doctor at CTCA told me the cancer was going into remission, I traveled with my younger daughter to Hawaii, as well as saw the Grand Canyon for the first time with my oldest daughter. The vacations with my girls were a great celebration and created special memories. My grandson was born and my son graduated from college after my last diagnosis. These are events that I’m very thankful for.

In addition to excellent care, CTCA has given me tools to cope with having cancer. Once I started to heal the tools helped me to lead a normal and active life. My family and my faith gave me the strength to keep going. Today I am feeling wonderful!

In 2007, I wasn’t expecting a prostate cancer diagnosis when I agreed to have my PSA tested to help promote a local church health fair for homeless men. This kind of community activity was part of my mission as an Arkansas state legislator and health care advocate. I had been to the doctor just six months earlier and was told everything looked good. However, after the health fair, I was directed to consult a physician because my PSA level was suspicious. After a biopsy, I was diagnosed with prostate cancer at the age of 54. I was completely shocked. 

At first, I only told my daughter, Camille, but after choosing a treatment method—robotic surgery—I decided to share my diagnosis with more people. Midway between elections, I went public to both my family and my legislative friends. My main concern, though, was making sure the cancer didn’t recur.

I completed roughly a year of treatment, including 40 rounds of radiation. Everything remained stable. But two years later, my PSA levels began to rise. I was recently engaged to be married and considering running for re-election. I was heartbroken. All of my life’s plans were in jeopardy. 

I had completed scans that revealed that the cancer had metastasized in my body. I made a decision that I needed to see if there were other treatment options available to me. I wanted to find a facility that specialized in cancer. One day, I was talking to a friend, and she recommended Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). She had seen the commercials on television, and she had done research to look into it for me. So I called and spoke to someone at CTCA®. They talked to me about how the hospital could help me. They told me that they would make the travel arrangements for me, obtain insurance verification and get my medical records. I decided to go and at least check it out.

In 2013, I arrived at CTCA in Newnan, Georgia, and met with my medical oncologist and care team. I told my multidisciplinary team that I came to CTCA because I wanted to extend my life and I wasn’t ready to give up. I completed tests and scans so that my doctors could fully understood the extent of my cancer. The results of the scans came back, and it was revealed that I had stage IV prostate cancer that had metastasized to the bone. My cancer had spread to my neck, back, rib cage and spinal cord. The team educated me about my cancer, presented treatment options and allowed me to ask lots of questions. Then, working together as a team, we formulated a treatment plan that was personalized to me. They knew that it was important for me to maintain my quality of life so I could accomplish the goals and objectives that I had set for myself and for my community.

My care team collaboratively prepared a personalized, compassionate and aggressive cancer-fighting plan that helped me live my life. During my cancer-fighting journey, I had hormone therapy and chemotherapy, and radiation to relieve back pain. I also underwent a bilateral mastectomy for cosmetic reasons, and my team has supported me spiritually and physically at every step. Any side effects from treatment were immediately addressed, and I was encouraged to move forward with my personal plans and career goals. My care team gave me real hope. They even worked with my schedule because I was going through an election. My care team allowed me to briefly delay some treatment options until my election was over, and my team of doctors put together an innovative cancer treatment regimen for me.

The extraordinary multidisciplinary care and treatment that I received was impressive. Instead of being treated like an ordinary patient, I was treated like a valued partner in my health care decisions. Everyone, including doctors, nurses, supportive therapists and other employees, consistently demonstrated an unprecedented attitude of hope, hospitality and humanity.

I believe that when people work together, anything is possible. I’ve learned that it is true for both health care and politics. I’m state representative for District 30 in Little Rock, Arkansas. I serve in the General Assembly, and we make laws for the state of Arkansas. We have to listen to the people in the state to understand what they need and want and then work together for the common good of the people. Going through cancer has made me a better representative for my state and country. I learned to listen more to my constituents, and I’ve learned to work with both parties to get things done. I have learned not to let little things bother me anymore. Life is good, and every day that I live is proof of that.

I’m so thankful to CTCA for working with me and providing me a multidisciplinary team to integrate physical, emotional and spiritual aspects into my care. Despite feeling hopeless and emotionally drained when I arrived at CTCA with stage IV cancer, my care team and the hospital staff reinforced positivity. We celebrated milestones with bell-ringing ceremonies, and they always told me not to give up. I’m grateful to CTCA for the encouragement and the care.  

For me, today, cancer is like a chronic disease. I still have stage IV cancer, and I return to CTCA once a month for treatment. The disease probably will never go away, but I am learning to manage it and live with it gracefully. I am continuing to do the things that I normally would do every day. It is really important to me to live a normal life, so I can accomplish my goals and objectives. I love spending time with my family and enjoying the outdoors.

I am truly thankful for the God-given opportunity for a second chance at living. I also have a second chance to make a real difference in the lives and health of the people in my community and state. I have accomplished a lot in my lifetime, but I still have more to do.

I am just an ordinary guy who has been through a lot over the years. But no matter what, I’ve always managed to pull through. I have become a better person because of what I’ve experienced.

On November 1, 1989, Gary, my son and best friend, was killed by a drunk driver. It took me years to forgive the driver, but I did. Then on May 18, 2007, my family faced another unimaginable tragedy. My grandson, Connor, had been killed in an accident. He ran out from behind a neighbor’s vehicle as she was pulling out of her driveway and was hit. Connor was just days away from turning 3.

The deaths of my son and grandson have deeply affected me, as have my personal struggles with health. I’ve had nearly 30 surgeries, including a colon resection, knee replacement and surgery to remove a tumor that was attached to my appendix. By far, though, the toughest health battle I’ve fought is against cancer.

In November 2005, I was working in a lumberyard in my hometown of McHenry, in northern Illinois. I developed a sore throat and thought nothing of it. But by the time May came around and it was still bothering me, I knew I had better get to the doctor. My doctor gave me an antibiotic, but my throat still didn’t feel right. I went to an ENT doctor, and he gave me Nexium® because he thought it might be acid reflux. I took it for a month, and I still had a sore throat. The doctor then ordered a CT scan. It didn’t show anything. Finally, I requested a biopsy.

I had a needle biopsy. Later that same week, my doctor called me at work and said another doctor wanted to see me and my wife, Carol, that day at 5 o’clock. All I could think of was that my father had died of stomach cancer and throat cancer in 1992. I was always leery of having throat cancer. Turns out my fears weren’t too far off. Carol and I received the bad news: It was thyroid cancer, or what the doctors call papillary carcinoma of the thyroid.

In August 2006, I underwent a total thyroidectomy at a local hospital. In the 10-hour surgery, the doctor took out my thyroid and several lymph nodes. As the months passed, I was in pain and had been vomiting, so I began to look for help elsewhere.

Watching TV one day, I saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I called the phone number for CTCA® and talked to an Information Oncology Specialist. She was such a nice lady. She sent me an information packet about CTCA right away. We were impressed with her and what we heard about CTCA, so we decided it was worth seeing what they could do to help me.

Carol worked with the Oncology Information Specialist to make arrangements for us to travel to CTCA at Southwestern Regional Medical Center in Tulsa, Oklahoma for a consultation. Days later, we were on a plane. I was scared, and I didn’t know what to expect. But I’m so glad we went.

We met with so many people on my first day at CTCA. When I met with my medical oncologist, she immediately knew what was wrong with me. She explained that I had severe lymphedema.

She ordered therapy right away to help get my lymphedema under control. The pain management team also helped me to deal with the pain.

I began to receive manual therapy for lymphedema on my neck at CTCA in Tulsa. My physical therapist there was so unique. He would just close his eyes and feel in my neck where the lymphatic fluid needed to drain. He would massage my neck and open up the passages so the fluid would drain and the swelling would go down.

Eventually, I was able to transfer my lymphedema therapy to the CTCA hospital closest to my home, CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in Zion, Illinois. I received my therapy there for a number of months. My care team also showed me how to use compression garments, such as one that I wore on my chest, to help reduce lymphedema swelling.

In total, I had three years of manual lymphedema therapy. Many of the therapy sessions were at CTCA, and others were at a facility in my hometown.

I continue return to Tulsa to see my medical oncologist for checkups. I have a local oncologist at CTCA in Illinois who I also see regularly and who keeps in touch with my oncologist in Tulsa. It’s worked out well. They share my medical records and communicate about my health. On August 6, 2017, I celebrated my 11th “cancerversary”—meaning I've had no evidence of disease for 11 years.

One of the best things resulting from my journey with cancer has been the Cancer Fighters® program, which is a support group CTCA offers for patients and caregivers. I signed up to participate in the program during one of my first visits to CTCA in Tulsa. In October 2009, Carol and I received an invitation to a special dinner being held for Cancer Fighters who lived in the areas surrounding CTCA at Midwestern. This was the first of many social outings we would attend for the Cancer Fighters program. It was a wonderful night, one that would change my life.

During the dinner, we were asked if we would like to volunteer at the hospital. I decided I was interested, so I stayed to get more information. Ever since then, I’ve been volunteering at the hospital three days a week. As a Cancer Fighters ambassador, I get to do what I love—talk with patients and caregivers. I also often speak to new employees at the hospital as part of their orientation.

Thanks to the Cancer Fighters program, I’ve participated in walks for charities and was honored as a survivor at a Chicago Wolves hockey game. For the 2009 holidays, I was even asked to light a tree at the hospital during a special ceremony.

During one of my visits to Tulsa for treatment, something inside of me clicked. I realized I had to change the way I think to change my life. I wanted to be more positive and to give more to others in need. I learned that when you give, you get.

The most difficult part of my journey has been not being able to work. Sometimes I feel as though it’s taken away my manhood, to a degree. I am now in my 60s, and I am on disability. It sucks. And while I no longer have cancer, I do have other health issues. But you know what? It means a lot to me every day just to wake up.

I have made many friends at both CTCA hospitals—patients, caregivers and CTCA employees. I stay in contact with a lot of people through emails, calls and Facebook.

In 2011, I attended Celebrate Life®, which CTCA hosts for five-year cancer survivors who have treated at their hospitals. I was so happy to be able to celebrate with my family and friends. But, more so, I look forward to being there for my family and friends. I love my wife, Carol, so much. She is my inspiration. She has fought multiple sclerosis for years, and she never lets it get the best of her. She teaches special needs kids at a local high school, and she is great with the kids. On Christmas Eve 2010, we renewed our wedding vows at our church.

Because of CTCA and the Cancer Fighters program, I feel like I have my life back. I’d especially like to thank Carol, too, for not giving up on me when I gave up on myself, and for having faith for both of us.

In the winter of 2009, I began to experience several symptoms and realize something was wrong with me. I noticed my voice was becoming weak, to the point where it sometimes disappeared altogether. It would get real raspy and I would cough a lot. The primary care doctor I was seeing treated it as GERD and put me on Prilosec®, which did nothing. I also had pretty bad pain in the upper right side of my back. The doctor thought it was muscle spasms and put me on muscle relaxers for three weeks. Again, it wasn’t any help. And, I was losing feeling in parts of my right hand. The doctor thought I had a pinched nerve. To help me deal with the numbness in my hand, I saw a pain specialist. I also saw a chiropractor and a massage therapist figuring they could help solve my back pain.

After more than three months of runaround and no relief, I finally asked the doctor to give me a chest X-ray. When he refused, I walked out of his office and decided it was time to get a new doctor. I called a family practice for an appointment, which led to an X-ray. Three weeks went by before they called to say the X-ray showed a “density” on my right lung. Finally, I had a CT scan. This time my wife Susan and I didn’t wait for the practice to call us with the results. Susan was on the phone the next morning.

Susan called me at work to give me the news she received: The scan showed a mass the size of a golf ball. They thought it was lung cancer. I didn’t want to hear it. Susan had suspected all along I had lung cancer. She lost her father to it in 1984 and she recognized similar symptoms in me.

It’s hard to describe my reaction to the news. I have to say I felt nothing. It was like a void of emotion, just blank. The career and lifestyle I led weren’t conducive to great health. I was an industrial painter for many years and a smoker for most of my adult life. I quit five years prior, but it didn’t seem to matter. At this point, what happened in the past was irrelevant. It was all about moving forward and figuring out what I needed to do.

An appointment had been set up for us to meet with a local thoracic surgeon, but it was three weeks away. We felt waiting that long was unacceptable. Susan immediately started to look online for treatment options and other hospitals. She found the Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) website and read about the lung cancer treatments they offered. We looked at the website that night and agreed to make the call to CTCA®. Susan talked with an Oncology Information Specialist named Bob. He provided more information about CTCA and their approach to patient care. I loved the idea that CTCA hospitals were focused on treating cancer. That was important to me.

The next afternoon, Bob, Susan and I had a conference call. Bob told us CTCA checked to see if my insurance would help cover the cost of my treatment at one of their hospitals. He said my insurance was accepted and CTCA could see me at their hospital in Philadelphia for an evaluation in less than a week. Bob also explained CTCA would arrange to acquire my medical records.

I was pretty impressed CTCA had taken care of so many of the details and was ready to see me for a consultation so quickly. But at the same time, I was a bit taken aback because I didn’t know if I was ready and I wasn’t sure of the next steps. I needed to be convinced, but it didn’t take long until I said, “Let’s do it.”

Susan and I made the 2 ½ hour drive from our home in Dauphin, Pennsylvania to CTCA in Philadelphia. We got there first thing one Tuesday morning in June for a three-day evaluation. A nurse explained step-by-step how the three days were going to proceed and what I should expect. She told me my doctors would meet and discuss my case and give me a plan of attack. That gave me hope. There was going to be a plan. It was going to be “this is what we’re going to do to fight it and get rid of it.”

On the second day, I had a PET scan to help my doctors determine if the cancer had spread to other areas in my body. I’ll never forget how they explained what the test would help them learn. They told me, “In order to fight your enemy, you have to know your enemy’s name and where he lives.” They also did a CT-guided needle biopsy. I learned then that I had stage III lung cancer. The tumor in my right lung was what the doctors called a pancoast tumor. The cancer was stage III because it had invaded my spine at the T1 vertebrae and a rib.

My medical oncologist, Dr. Aithal, presented everything to me in an honest and forthright manner. She offered hope, but it was never any fluffy false hope, just matter-of-fact, real hope. She proposed the game plan for my treatment. I was to receive 30 radiation treatments (TomoTherapy® five days a week for six weeks) and a whole lot of chemo (a regimen that included cisplatin and etoposide). The plan was to shrink and kill the tumor and then, hopefully, doctors would be able to remove it surgically. It was an aggressive plan of attack, and I liked that.

I went through treatment that July and August. My life revolved around getting better and doing whatever it took to get through treatment. It was hard at times. I lost my hair, my blood counts were all over the place and my immune system was compromised. Exhaustion was the worst side effect, and the neuropathy was pretty bad. But I never had nausea. My CTCA naturopathic clinician recommended supplements to help me deal with side effects, and the hospital’s pain management team prescribed medications for the pain. When the radiation and chemo started to kick in and shrink the tumor, I had less pain because the tumor wasn’t pressing on my spine and nerves as much. Fortunately the pain went away and I didn’t need to stay on the pain medications for long.

That September, I underwent more testing so that my doctors could see how well I was responding to the treatment and if I could have surgery to remove the tumor. After a thorough evaluation, they decided surgery would be too risky.

Dr. Aithal knew I was devastated by the news I wasn’t going to be able to have surgery. But she gave us comfort by telling us there were still other options and plenty of reason for hope. She prescribed another chemo regimen with a different drug (Taxotere®). I completed the additional chemo at CTCA and radiation treatment (which I received at a facility that was closer to my home) on Jan. 6, 2010. Three weeks later, I had scans done. They showed no activity. Only scar tissue remained.

In the beginning, I had no knowledge of what cancer was, or how it was going to affect me. Once I started to see all of the evidence, technology and people that were there to help me and offer every possible method for me to get through it, there was hope. I saw how hard everyone at CTCA was working for me and I wasn’t about to let them down. I was determined to complete my treatment plan.

Dr. Aithal has a mind like a steel trap. She never had to look at a chart to remember me. She was always very real with me. I thought of her as the captain of my team. My radiation oncologist is incredibly smart, too, and very funny. He went out of his way for me to make sure I got answers very quickly. He gave me plenty of high fives, fist bumps and encouragement.

I went through physical therapy and occupational therapy at the hospital too. I am especially grateful for one of the therapists who pretty much taught me how to breathe again. I still practice what she preached. The first day I went through physical therapy with her, I could not walk a flight and a half of stairs without stopping. By the end of the three weeks of physical therapy with her, I could walk up an entire stair tower.

I also worked with the pulmonologists at the hospital. They did pulmonary function tests on me to check on my lung capacity and put me on an inhaler. Dr. Lund did a bronchoscopy and needle aspiration to biopsy lymph nodes they were concerned about in 2011. During my checkup in January 2012, Dr. Hoag prescribed pulmonary rehab to help me with my COPD. They continue to be concerned about me and are trying to help me build my lung capacity and maintain it.

The pastoral care team also offered biofeedback therapy, which I found to be helpful for reducing stress and anxiety. By far, though, what helped me stay calm, positive and focused on my fight was the support and encouragement I received from the many people I met at CTCA. I got to know a lot of patients who were in the same boat I was in. We shared meals and stories, and sat next to each other in chemo and talked. We called our experience “cancer camp.” I will always remember those wonderful people.

I also became friends with many of the nurses and staff members at the hospital. I enjoy seeing every one of them when I go back for checkups. My friend Daniella who works at the hospital taught me how to keep my eye on the prize. The outcome of this period of my life depended on how I wanted it to turn out. She said that if I planned on disaster, then disaster it would be. I followed her advice and kept my head up and envisioned the future the way I wanted it to be. Freedom from the grip of cancer was my goal, and I know Daniella’s guidance was a key in my success.

I continue to return to CTCA for checkups. I do live with fear the cancer will come back, but I try to think positively. I intend to put cancer out of my life and move on. There’s every reason to be optimistic.

I am fortunate my career was long and fruitful and I am able to enjoy my pension, retirement and life with Susan. We’re coming up on our 40th anniversary, and we’re going to make it to our 50th. We have a happy house. We’ve been to Arizona, Illinois, Florida and Washington. But no matter where we go, we always can’t wait to get to home. We cherish it. We have projects around the house and every spring we look forward to planting our next garden. All of those little things fill our lives.

I grew up in Johannesburg, South Africa. As a young man, I worked as a welder in a steel factory. I also smoked—a lot. I was a chain smoker, going through four packs of cigarettes in a single day. I moved to the United States about 20 years ago.

In 2008, I started to feel very tired. My wife, Valerie, suggested that I see my doctor about the lethargy, so I made an appointment with my pulmonologist, and he ran some tests. Soon after that appointment, Valerie arrived home from work two hours earlier than usual. The moment she walked in the door, I could see in her face that something was wrong. It turned out the doctor had called her at work that day with the news. “I know it is cancer,” I said to her. She told me it was, that I had lung cancer.

The news was a terrible shock. But after she told me, the first thing I said to her was that I was going to fight it. I was determined to find the support I needed and to overcome the diagnosis.

I started on chemotherapy to treat the cancer at the hospital near my home. This was difficult for me. I was bedridden for about three weeks and lost about 30 pounds. I felt nauseous and was unable to walk. I needed Valerie’s help with everything.

That challenge was worth it if it got rid of the cancer. But a computed tomography (CT) scan taken after I finished the regimen showed that the cancer was still in my body. I needed to continue chemotherapy every three weeks.

During my treatment, my wife’s company transferred her to Phoenix, Arizona. So we found ourselves living in a new place, but still battling this foe. I continued chemotherapy in Phoenix, and the debilitating side effects persisted. I told Valerie that I was ready to give up. Valerie is incredible; she is the love of my life and has supported me to the fullest throughout this entire ordeal. Because of her, I continued with treatment.

One night, my wife and I were watching television together. We saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). We had never heard of CTCA® at that point. The advertisement triggered Valerie to suggest we look for another doctor.  We decided to call CTCA for a second opinion on treatment options.

During my initial consultation at CTCA, the first thing I noticed was that the people I spoke with were listening to me. They wanted to know how I felt, what my questions were, what my thoughts were about their recommendations. My input mattered. I knew I’d found the support that I needed. But I also found so much more. 

Before CTCA, I had never heard of a “care manager.” But here, someone was assigned to be just that, a person keeping track of all my needs and seeing that they were addressed. I was taken care of, and so was Valerie. I had someone to organize my schedule, to tell me when to go for a particular test, to make sure I had access to the results. If a test was done in the morning, my oncologist and I usually had the results that afternoon. That approach not only helps me receive the care I need, it also provided me with a strong sense of security and trust.

At CTCA, I was given information and the time to make sense of it. There were people who took the time to make my life more comfortable, and to help me with the side effects of chemotherapy. I came to understand things about cancer that I hadn’t known in all the years since my diagnosis, which helped immensely with understanding the rationale behind the treatment plan. That mattered to me. My team also performed genomic testing, which showed that I had a mutation in a gene of my cancer known as ALK. This made me a candidate for a particular targeted therapy, and with this knowledge, we started a new chemotherapy regimen tailored to my cancer’s genomic profile.

With this support and care, I was able to remain more positive than I’d been since I’d started treatment years earlier. CTCA also provided for Valerie’s needs, and that meant a great deal to me. She is my world, and the fact that my Care Team at CTCA cared about her was amazing.

I feel that the integrative care also helped enormously. I saw a nutritionist who provided recommendations for a diet that would help keep me strong. I had chiropractic care and acupuncture, too. I continued to receive chemotherapy at CTCA, but with the additional help, I was able to tolerate it much better.

Within four months after starting treatment, I felt like a new person.

Today, I visit CTCA for a check-up every four months. I also receive phone calls every couple of weeks from someone at CTCA just inquiring about how I’m doing. If all goes as planned, after about a year, that will decrease to every six months and then once a year. For now, I can go on with my life.

Life was filled with ups and downs after my diagnosis. But after seeking treatment at CTCA, the road became far less bumpy. Today, I feel healthy physically and emotionally. Looking at me, you would never know that I’m a lung cancer patient and survivor. I no longer feel on the brink of giving up. In fact, I feel like I am at the start of a new time in life, with every reason to be alive.

I joined the military in 1979. It was the first year that women were required to train with men, and I was part of the first group. Physical training was tough. We had to run 15 miles with a full backpack and weapons in hand. I enjoyed the challenge. The physical activity shaped who I am and made me a stronger person.

While in the military, I met and married my first husband. Our daughter was born while we were on tour in Germany, and our second daughter was born after we returned to the United States. I spent three years in the military, and during that time, I fell in love with physical activity, especially running.

I always considered myself physically fit, but I knew I had one vice that contradicted it—smoking. I grew up in a household where my mother smoked. Back then, the dangers of cigarette smoke weren’t fully understood. I eventually picked up the habit as well. When you are exposed to smoking that early, it really makes it difficult to quit. I smoked about a pack a day.

Then in 2010, I had to have half my thyroid removed to take out a growth. After the surgery, I continued to smoke because the tumor was benign. A few months later, during a follow-up CT scan, they found a spot on my lungs. After numerous tests, it was determined that it wasn’t cancerous. We monitored it for several years.

When the doctor told me about the spot on my lungs, I realized it was time to quit. I read online that quitting smoking improves lung cancer survival for people who stop smoking after they're diagnosed. The thought of dying of lung cancer frightened me. Although at the time I wasn’t diagnosed with cancer, I knew I wanted to be healthier and that smoking was causing me harm.

I felt like this bump in the road was what I needed to slow down and re-examine my life. I also felt like it was divine intervention and the Lord was telling me that this was the time to quit. I knew that quitting smoking was the best gift I could give myself. I instantly quit smoking, and I haven’t had another cigarette since that day.

Then in 2014, during a follow-up exam, my doctor told me the tumor was growing and surgery was recommended. He described a surgery that would require a long and painful recovery. The doctor informed me that although the PET scan didn’t show signs of cancer, sometimes the cancer isn’t found until after surgery and the tissue is biopsied.

The description of the surgery scared me, and I honestly just didn’t want to go through that. So I put it off. A year later, I realized that I needed to address the spot on my lungs. I went to see another surgeon. He gave me a similar description of the surgery, and I was just not convinced that this was the right doctor or treatment option for me.

Sometimes a second opinion just isn’t enough. After watching a Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) commercial, I wanted to find out more about them. I was interested in CTCA® because of the focus only on cancer. It made me think that I needed to be somewhere that specialized in that one area. So I called them and scheduled an appointment at the hospital in suburban Illinois, which was about 80 miles from my home.

With a military background, I appreciate order and discipline. In my opinion, order brings positive results. CTCA took care of obtaining all my past medical records and handled working with my insurance. Walking into CTCA, it was clear to me that the place was well run. I was greeted with kindness and compassion that continued throughout my entire journey.

After completing my tests, I met with my medical oncologist and surgeon. They took the time to walk me through all my results and the progression of the tumor, and answered all my questions and concerns. The doctors explained that they wanted to do surgery that was as minimally invasive as possible. I liked this option, because the scar would be smaller and the recovery time would be shorter.

I chose to continue my care with CTCA. In October 2015, I had surgery to remove the tumor, and I was released from the hospital two days later. By the next week, I was back to work, and I even felt good. The pain was minimal, and it was so much better than I expected.

The doctors told me they removed the upper right lobe of my lung. The biopsy determined that I had stage I lung cancer. Further tests showed that the cancer was removed and I did not need to follow up with chemotherapy or radiation, which was a relief. Today, I continue with follow-up appointments to monitor my lungs, and at this time, have no evidence of cancer.

Today, I am remarried to my husband, Lionel. I also have three grandchildren, and I am actively involved in their lives. I try to always look on the bright side and stay positive. Sometimes I feel guilty about smoking all those years. But I believe attitude is the key to overcoming any adversity.

After having part of my lung removed, I get tired more quickly. I can feel the difference in my lung capacity. But I am still able to run, and I am trying to build up my endurance. I have always loved physical activity and running. I have challenged myself to run in the Chicago Marathon in 2018.

My goal is to be in the best shape of my life at age 57. I’ve been working out and working with a trainer to prepare for the marathon. Winning to me is competing against myself and not about competing against others. My goal is to be able to run the whole marathon at my pace successfully. The marathon gives me something to work towards, and afterwards, I will feel a great sense of accomplishment. My whole family is cheering me on, and I am just so happy to be here and able to go for the challenge.

In 2011, when I was 36 years old, I began feeling severely fatigued. Then I developed some strange rashes. I was a healthy person, and my work as a concrete mason kept me active, so I didn’t think there was anything seriously wrong. But finally, I listened to my wife and went to the doctor. A few tests revealed the problem: I had Hodgkin lymphoma. 

The toughest part of the diagnosis was the feeling that I was not in control. I had to rely on my physicians and their recommendations. Of course, they were the ones with the expertise, but still, when you are not equipped to understand your own problem, that’s challenging.

After overcoming the initial shock, there was only one direction to take. I had to put my trust in somebody. The question was: Who?

I began treatment at a facility near our home, with chemotherapy. The first regimen I had was referred to as ABVD, for the four drugs it contains—adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblasine and dacarbazine. After that, I tried another chemotherapy combination. These treatments were difficult to tolerate. I felt nauseous, lost my hair, and was often very tired. At first, I could handle the challenge. That’s life, right? But after about 12 cycles, I started to feel wary. Each treatment would wipe me out for five or six days, and as soon as I felt better, it was time for the next round.

I tried to continue working during this time, and was able to sometimes. But many days, all I could do was show up at the job site to make sure everyone knew what they were supposed to be doing. Then I’d either nap at work or return home to rest. Although I was happy to have whatever treatment could get rid of the cancer, it was also hard to deal with the impact on my family life. The days spent in bed were days away from my wife and two stepsons. There were some holidays I was able to enjoy, but others where I just wasn’t up to it. That was hard, because it felt like lost time.

It was time to try another approach. Eventually, I decided to seek a second opinion. A good friend of ours had an uncle who had been treated at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and recommended it, so we decided to schedule a consultation.

As soon as I arrived at CTCA®, the doctors I met with took time to answer all our questions. I was ready to start treatment right away, which began with chemotherapy and targeted therapies.

In February 2013, Dr. Crilley, my oncologist, recommended an autologous stem cell transplant as the next step. I was the first patient to undergo that treatment at CTCA in Philadelphia. The care I received during this intensive procedure was excellent. I felt like I was being treated by a member of my family. That procedure went very well, but eventually, the disease started to progress.  

Dr. Crilley presented a couple of options. I could have another transplant, this time using my sister’s stem cells. Or I could try immunotherapy, a new approach. I decided to try immunotherapy.

I was told that immunotherapy uses the body’s own immune system to fight cancer. In some instances, certain drugs are used to trigger an immune response against the mutant cells that make up a tumor or blood cancer.

I had already heard about immunotherapy by the time my doctors brought it up. They agreed that after chemotherapy and the transplant, this approach would be my next step. Studies had found the approach may help patients with Hodgkin lymphoma, so I agreed to try it.

My experience with immunotherapy was completely different than my experience with chemotherapy. I did not experience any negative side effects from immunotherapy. The side effects I have experienced have all been positive: returning to normal energy levels, resuming normal activities, working hard, feeling like I can kick a soccer ball around with my stepsons, playing fetch with the dog, going for a walk with my wife. I’m almost back to 100 percent. The treatment has been easier in every way. I don’t have any days of fatigue following each treatment. I am able to work full time, and I don’t need a long stay at CTCA for each treatment. I haven’t felt as well as I do now since before I was diagnosed with cancer.

But there is so much more to the experience of CTCA than just the treatment. Some people have asked me why I travel for treatment, why I don’t just go somewhere local. Doesn’t it make life complicated? No, it doesn’t. CTCA takes the worry away. Scheduling, appointments, all of these details are taken care of. My response when people ask me about the inconvenience of traveling for treatment is that all I need to do is get there and get myself home. CTCA takes care of everything else.

The level of support I have experienced from my doctors and so many other people at CTCA is incredible. I look forward to my appointments. My doctor is brilliant and up to date on the latest advances, but she is also warm and down to Earth. She is cautious when she needs to be, but not withholding treatment that may help me. I feel that I can have frank discussions with her and Dr. Topolsky, my other oncologist, and they take the time I need to answer all of my questions. 

Today, I am still completing the immunotherapy treatment, and life is getting back to normal. I am more thankful than ever for my wife, who is the reason I am still here. She always knows what I need, and she has been there with me every step of the way. Having a caregiver like Amy has made all the difference.

This experience has changed how I approach the challenges of life. Before my diagnosis, I had trouble being flexible. There was always a certain way things should be done. But now I know that it is possible to go with the flow.

CTCA has provided a level of care that far exceeded my expectations. I am grateful for every minute of it, and for the time it has given back to me. 

In September 2012, I began experiencing itchy skin on my breast. At first I thought it was just dry skin and nothing to be concerned about. One night, after coming home from teaching Zumba®, I did a breast self-exam and felt a big knot on the side of my breast.

I called my gynecologist right away, and she sent me to a local breast center near our home in Montogomery, Alabama, for a biopsy and a mammogram. A couple of days later, the clinicians at the breast center informed me my tests revealed I had breast cancer. The tumor in my breast was about the size of a tennis ball.

Of course the news was devastating. My husband Trey had no idea what to do and neither did I. But I knew I had to be strong. I knew my children and my husband were going to follow my lead; they would deal with it however I dealt with it. So I made the decision to be strong and keep going.

I also felt like there was no room in my life for cancer. With two active young children and Trey and I both working full time, our family life is very busy. I teach Zumba classes part time and our family sings at our Sunday morning church service. And we love it this way! I love going to Friday night football games, taking my son to band class and my daughter to her art lessons. We have a happy, full life. In other words, I didn’t have time for cancer. I didn’t want to have to stop my life.

Because I did not want to put my life on hold for cancer, I was hesitant to rush into a decision about my treatment. I was hoping there might be a way to treat the cancer without stopping my active life.

I had heard about Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to seek a second opinion there. From the moment I walked through the door of the CTCA hospital in Newnan, Georgia, I knew that’s where I wanted to be. I met with a medical oncologist, a surgeon and a radiation oncologist, and everyone wanted to know what I wanted to do. It was such a relief to be asked, and to know that I had a say in my treatment.

My CTCA care team emphasized the importance of exercise and created a treatment plan that allowed me to continue teaching Zumba. They knew I loved it, and they felt it was important for me to continue doing things I enjoy.

My treatment plan included chemotherapy and radiation therapy, followed by surgery. I worked with a naturopathic clinician, who helped reduce the side effects of the treatments. And I even started teaching Zumba classes at the hospital.

Cancer treatment didn’t change my active life, but it did change my looks. I lost my hair and I lost weight.

At first, these side effects were difficult, but I quickly learned to embrace them, and to embrace the beauty in me that can’t be taken away by medication. I wore hats and enjoyed putting on make-up. A few new outfits made a big difference. I bought fake eyelashes, too. None of my exercise students even noticed. I added walking and biking to my exercise regimen because staying active made me feel good.

But what really mattered most when it came to coping with side effects was my attitude. I knew I couldn’t continue to worry about what other people were thinking. I had to just deal with what was happening and face it. And it got better.

Today I am enjoying my full and happy life more than ever. 

I’ve always led a busy and full life. I’ve worked since I was 14, including for more than 30 years in the telecommunications field. While working, I went to college and raised two kids, coached intramural soccer and basketball teams, mentored a young lady from freshman year through high school graduation, and served on the Board of Directors for the Boys and Girls Club in my hometown, Cheverly, Maryland.

So in March 2010 when I was diagnosed with breast cancer, I wasn’t going to stop and give in to cancer. I looked for my way out of it. I made sure that I put all of my energy into learning what it took to stay alive and staying as healthy as I can.

One day I had been wearing some clothing that was a bit tighter than what I usually wear. When I took it off that evening, I noticed a lump in the center of my right breast, as well as a lump underneath my armpit. I felt both of them. I waited a few days and the one under my arm seem to disappear. But I checked the one underneath the right breast and it was still there.

I called my doctor’s office and they told me I needed to come in for screening. I had a mammogram, sonogram, MRI, and biopsy. When the results came back, a doctor called me in the evening to tell me I had stage zero breast cancer.

I went to a facility that’s 32 miles from my house for surgery to remove the tumor. It was a frustrating experience. Three days after surgery, I received a call from the doctor’s office. I was told I needed additional surgery. I asked why I needed another surgery, but no one could give me a direct answer. I decided to get a second opinion.

I had seen a few ads for Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) and knew of a friend who had treated there. She talked highly of CTCA and the people who worked there.

I called CTCA and spoke with a gentleman named Doug White. He explained that CTCA provided treatment options and a team of cancer experts. After checking to see if my medical insurance provider would allow me to treat at CTCA, Doug was able to schedule me for a consultation at the CTCA hospital in Philadelphia.

Three days after my initial call, I was at the hospital for tests and appointments with my doctors and other care team members. I told them I wanted to know if there was cancer anywhere else in my body, and if so, I wanted to know what my treatment options were. I had a PET/CT scan at CTCA and my doctors reviewed all of my medical records and tests, including the ones they had retrieved from the facility I had gone to for the surgery.

What I learned from my doctors at CTCA was that I had stage II breast cancer. My surgeon, Dr. Ari Brooks, told me I needed surgery to remove additional cancer cells, and the lymph nodes of concern, the sentinel nodes. If they were cancerous, he said he would need to remove all of the affected lymph nodes.

When my doctors talked to me about having surgery, they told me if the cancer had spread, I may need to have many lymph nodes for my right arm removed. This meant there was a possibility I could lose use of my right arm. I jokingly showed my medical oncologist, Dr. Sramila Aithal, pictures of my crafts, ceramics, jewelry and clothes. She asked, “Why am I looking at these pictures?” I said, “Because if I lose the use of my right arm, then you know what I was doing before you got all of my lymph nodes.” She understood how important to me it was that I keep doing all of the craft projects I love.

Dr. Aithal told me once I had surgery to remove the rest of the cancer cells and make a clean margin, I could potentially have three options for additional treatment—traditional radiation, chemo and Intraoperative Radiation Therapy (IORT). With traditional radiation, it would possibly take me six weeks, five days a week to receive the treatment. Dr. Aithal explained the side effects I would have if I had chemo. Then she described what IORT was. I said right away, “If I can have that, it’s what I want.” She explained I could qualify for IORT if the doctors discovered during surgery the cancer had not spread.

So on May 20, 2010, I had the surgery and IORT. Going into the surgery, I didn’t know if I would be able to receive IORT because Dr. Brooks first needed to make sure the cancer had not spread to my lymph nodes. Dr. Brooks removed four lymph nodes during the surgery. They were immediately analyzed in the laboratory so I didn’t have to wait or go through surgery again after the lymph nodes were removed and examined for cancer. Everything was done right then and there. And the good news was the lymph nodes were not cancerous. This meant I qualified for IORT.

While I was still under anesthesia and on the operating room table, I received IORT treatment. It took less than two minutes to administer the single boost of radiation. When I came out of surgery and awoke, I saw Dr. Brooks sitting right by my bed. He told me everything that happened.

Everyone who cared for me came by to see me after my surgery. They made sure I was comfortable at every level. I was hospitalized over 24 hours so that my doctors and nurses could monitor me for any swelling, bleeding or blood clots. I had some slight discomfort and my arm was numb for a while, but overall, I had no major pain or bleeding.

To help support my quality of life, I received naturopathic medicine, nutrition therapy and physical therapy at CTCA. My naturopathic provider included vitamins and other supplements in my treatment plan. My nutritionist made reasonable recommendations for modifications I could make to my diet. She worked with the foods I normally ate, suggested better ways to prepare my meals and shared recipes.

CTCA took very good care of me. And I liked the way the doctors talked to me. They didn’t speak to me as though they were better than me. Instead, they shared my medical information with me and allowed me to help make decisions about my treatment.

At CTCA, all they are doing is treating cancer. It’s not like some of the local hospitals where they deliver a baby one day and treat cancer the next.

All of the members of my team looked at me as an individual and designed my care around my needs. The treatment I received wasn’t from a cookie-cutter, it was customized to me. Everyone on my care team gave me better care than any place I had ever been to before. To name a few, I thank Dr. Aithal, Dr. Brooks, and nurse Janelle Clark Brown. I also thank Margaret in the dining hall, Brice Corbin, Mr. Brown, and so many other staff members at CTCA for all of their support. And on top of my list is Mr. Richard Stephenson, the founder of CTCA. I thank him for having the vision and heart to build these centers.

The CTCA travel team is an extension of the overall care I receive. Every time I’ve gone to CTCA, whether for treatment or a checkup, I’ve taken the train to Philadelphia. It’s a 2-hour ride. All I have to do is call the travel team and tell them I need arrangements to visit the hospital for appointments. They arrange for my train tickets, coordinate for the hospital’s transportation team to pick me up from the train station, and if I need to stay overnight, book reservations at a nearby hotel for a discounted rate.

After my treatment, everything fell back into place. I was able to return to work full time within two weeks and get back to my busy life. My breast healed and today my scar is nice and smooth.

Every three months, I return to CTCA for follow-up appointments. I continue to thank God for my healing and the team at CTCA.

I love spending time with my sons, Kerry and Jevon, and my grandkids, Jayla and Quartez, my little nurses when I was recovering. I continue to sew, make jewelry and ceramics.

I love my family and I love life regardless of the challenges I face. I attribute my strength to prayer, family and sticking to things I can control, and seeking help on things that are beyond my expertise. I do not worry about dying. That is God’s job and I am smart enough not to cross that line. I concentrate on living.

As a member of the Cancer Fighters® Care Net at CTCA, I regularly talk to people about my journey with cancer and the care I received at CTCA. What I tell people is don’t look for a way to stay in cancer, look for the best treatment that will get you out. Or if you can’t get out, look for the best treatment that will help sustain you with a good life.

Here are 10 things I tell people who are fighting cancer they can do to empower themselves:

Learn all you can about the disease. Make changes where you can to help fight cancer or the return of cancer. Give yourself a fighting chance and look for every possible way to get rid of your cancer. And, realize there are great advances in the treatment of cancer. Treatment today is much better than it was in the past.Become a partner in your care. When possible, get involved with all the decisions regarding your care, ask questions and share what is going on. Use your energy to help yourself survive and try not to stress about how you think you got cancer.Talk about your cancer diagnosis with friends and loved ones. Talk to someone who has been there and who can share with you. Also, find out about your family’s history of cancer. It’s information you can use. Tell your family precisely what cancer you have and what is wrong. They’re in the same gene pool. They could be doing stuff to help themselves prevent the disease.Have a good outlook. Look forward, don’t look back. Focus on one day at a time. You can do it, but don’t give up. If you give up, you’re using that energy on negativity when a positive attitude will help you most.Change the things you can control, such as the food you eat, the environment you’re in, drink less alcohol, don’t do drugs, etc. And don’t wait until you have cancer before you start figuring out how to make your life and health better.Give someone a hug, even a “good morning.” Just because you have cancer, sometimes people walk by you like you’ve already left this world, or like you don’t have a chance with it. Give someone a hug. Cancer’s not contagious! Just hug the person. Help make their day.Enjoy life! Have a good time on this Earth.Keep your mind busy and your body moving. Even doing something like a crossword puzzle will help take your mind off cancer. Anything to get you away from what you’re dealing with for a moment—for example, exercise—will help you find your way to a better state of mind when you have cancer.Do your part to make the world a better place. Take control of your life and do the things that are going to improve your life, and help improve someone else’s.Give it your best shot. When it comes to care, you deserve the best care out there. And as far as I’m concerned, CTCA has the best care for me.

When I was 63 years old, I began feeling some mild symptoms that indicated something wasn’t quite right. I had some sore throats, some congestion that would not clear up, even with antibiotics, and I was feeling tired. I worked in construction for more than 30 years, and I thought the dust fumes were causing some problems.

Three months after I first saw my doctor about these symptoms and no treatments were working, I went back to find out what to do next. She suggested that I consider seeing an ear, nose and throat specialist, though I did not receive a formal referral. Fortunately we did know of someone near our home in Peoria, Arizona, though I had to wait a couple of weeks for an appointment. In the meantime, I was feeling increasingly unwell and was growing more concerned. When we finally did see the specialist, I had a long wait, the staff forgot my name, and at one point I was told, “You’ve probably got cancer.”

The specialist did a biopsy and the results came back two weeks later. He told me that I had lymphoma and that he would refer me to an oncologist. That referral never came.

By coincidence, our daughter had just been hired to work at the Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) facility that was just opening in Phoenix. She knew about my health issues, and she conferred with Dr. Joel Granick about what was happening. She provided me with information about CTCA and encouraged me to call. I was definitely ready to change courses, so I spoke with someone there and was soon meeting with Dr. Granick.

From the first moment, I knew there was something different about CTCA. The staff at the Western Regional Medical Center was small at the time, and there were just a few dozen patients. But the building felt like a resort, not a hospital. The atmosphere and amenities, even the cafeteria all felt so inviting. The staff welcomed my wife and I with open arms, not because my daughter worked there but because that is how all patients and caregivers are treated.

I had four rounds of chemotherapy plus rituximab, a monoclonal antibody. The treatment was given on a 21-day cycle, and at the end I had a PET scan that showed no visible signs of cancer. I had an additional two cycles of treatment just to be safe, and the cancer has been in remission since those were completed.

The treatment was tougher than I thought it would be. Aside from cancer I was very healthy and strong, so I assumed I could handle the medication. But it was difficult at times. I lost my hair, though fortunately the anti-nausea medications were very effective. At one point during treatment I had a problem with muscle control in my legs, but a few sessions of rehab work got me through that with no lasting problems.

I received wonderful care from my doctor during the roughest periods. His advice was always to do what I could. He urged me not to push myself, but also not to fight the urge to try to do something, even if it was the middle of the night and I was having trouble sleeping. He said I would know when it was time to rest, and to just trust that.

My family was invaluable to me during this time. My wife of 46 years, Carol, is the love of my life and she was an incredible caregiver. Sometimes she would try to do too much, and one time our care manager had to encourage her to let me do some things for myself, that this was an important part of my recovery. She was always there for me, and I’m grateful for that.

The family unit as a whole kept me going. Our daughter and two of our four grandchildren lived nearby, and they gave me constant encouragement. My faith remained strong, and I knew I would get through this difficult time.

Family was not only a support, but also a motivation. I was determined to see my grandchildren grow up, and I’ve gotten that opportunity. It’s been five years since I was first diagnosed with cancer. I’ve seen two grandchildren go off to college, one is about to graduate. Our youngest grandchild has gone from a preschooler to a nine-year-old.

Today I am also working with CTCA as part of their outreach. I’m very thankful to have the chance to give back in this way, to tell other people coping with a cancer diagnosis about the level of care they will find at CTCA. The range of integrative approaches on offer—naturopathic medicine, nutritional support, mind-body techniques to reduce stress, and even the spiritual support—are indicators of the fact that the professionals at CTCA see their patients not as patients but as whole people, and that this “whole person” approach is the best way to treat cancer. They understand that we don’t just want to be treated for cancer, we also want to live life. The care I received at CTCA has allowed me to do that.

Hugh had always been in good health. A few years ago, he began feeling tired and would get short of breath. He seemed to have symptoms of depression, and because he was going through a difficult time with his work, that made sense to me.

But the physical symptoms kept coming. Yard work that he could once easily do after working an eight- or nine-hour day was suddenly difficult. I was becoming a little alarmed, and became even more so when he developed a cough. He also had a small lump on his neck. My suspicions changed from depression to lung cancer.

Hugh’s doctor thought he had strep throat and prescribed him antibiotics. At the time, that very first appointment, Hugh asked his doctor about lymphoma. He thought he had the symptoms for it and wanted to know what his doctor thought. She said no, it was just strep throat.

The first antibiotic didn’t work, so she prescribed him a second one. When that one didn’t work, she moved to a third one. By that point, Hugh was ready for some more intensive testing, and he asked his doctor to refer him to a specialist to examine the lump on his neck.  The specialist did a biopsy and explained to me, in a comforting way, that lymph nodes can do all kinds of crazy things as we age, and he was certain that Hugh’s swollen lymph node was nothing to be concerned about.

Three weeks later the biopsy test results came back. The doctor spoke to us in that same comforting way, but this time he wouldn’t make eye contact. He told us that Hugh had cancer, and that the cancer was either lymphoma or sarcoma; he’d need to do further tests to make the exact diagnosis.

After the specialist made the diagnosis of lymphoma, Hugh went to a cancer center near our home. The doctor there told us that before his treatment could begin, Hugh needed to get a chemotherapy port installed at a different facility, have some additional blood work, and have a bone marrow biopsy. We were so overwhelmed, and not feeling very good about having to go to so many different clinics before he could even start treatment.

Our daughter had just started working at the CTCA facility in Phoenix, which had just opened at this time. She knew that patients there have everything taken care of in one place and without delays. She urged Hugh to go there for a second opinion, which is exactly what he did.

The treatment plan that the CTCA doctors proposed was similar, but the model of care was completely different. Now we were experiencing the “mother standard” of care—the care team would treat Hugh with the same attention that they would give to their own mothers. He could have all his tests done under one roof, too, which was such a relief. The team also treated me with equal importance. I always had so many questions—for every 5 questions that Hugh had, I had 25—and they patiently answered each and every one.

Hugh was able to handle the treatment (R-CHOP) quite well. He didn’t have too many side effects, though he did lose his hair and become pale and weak from the chemotherapy. After four rounds of treatment, a PET scan showed no visible sign of cancer.

As Hugh’s caregiver, I was constantly on the watch for signs of fatigue. Some chemotherapy drugs can actually give you a boost of energy, and you can become tired without warning. So I had to watch out for that and encourage Hugh to rest when I saw that he needed to. He resisted my persuasion at first. He didn’t like being told to rest, and the role reversal—a strong man now in a weakened state—was difficult for him to handle. But his care manager helped him understand that he wasn’t weak; he just needed to be reminded to rest. He came to understand that being able to admit that he needed something or someone was actually a strength.

Still, the most difficult part of Hugh’s treatment for me, as his caregiver and as his wife, was watching this strong man who is normally in such control, become weak. With chemotherapy, he lost his strength temporarily. When we went for walks around the neighborhood, as we have often done over the years, he could not lift his feet, but only shuffle them. And I could not react to that shuffling, as heartbreaking as it was. I knew it was embarrassing for hi, and I needed to keep a brave face and act like everything was normal.

Yet hard as this time was, it strengthened our relationship. We were not only husband and wife but also friends. We became more honest with one another, and that included me being able to tell him when I was having a tough day, which is not easy to do when you’re taking care of someone who is coping with a cancer diagnosis—you can easily feel guilty for not being at your best. I learned to allow myself to have moments of small breakdowns without feeling like I had no right to do that because I was the caregiver. Hugh and I learned to not put on a false face, but to instead be honest and loving.

Our family was wonderful through this time. At first, our children and grandchildren needed to get over the shock of hearing that their father and grandfather was sick. They were extra careful around him in the beginning, but quickly realized that Hugh was the same person, which he greatly appreciated. They helped him by treating him normally, and they enjoyed giving him caps as gifts when he lost his hair.

After the care Hugh received at CTCA, he is now back to his normal, strong self. He can walk without shuffling again. Near our home there is a hill with a steep hiking trail that he and I had often walked. When he was going through chemotherapy, he couldn’t do that. Our first post-treatment milestone was giving that hike a new try. We thought we’d see how far we could go, and be happy with that. Next thing we knew, we were at the top, looking out over Phoenix, just as we’d always done.

Today we can celebrate holidays without the knowledge of that next scan hanging over our heads. More importantly, we have learned to celebrate every day.

In 2010, at age 57, I found a lump in my breast while I was in the shower. My gynecologist sent me for a mammogram, and then to an oncologist near my home in New Jersey for a biopsy.

When the oncologist called with the results of the biopsy, my daughter, who’d just given birth, was ill and in the hospital. My infant grandson had just come home from neonatal intensive care. I was at my daughter’s house taking care of my grandchildren, holding the little one in my arm while the three-year-old tugged at my shirt, as I tried to listen to what my doctor was saying. I heard enough to understand that the biopsy had come back positive for breast cancer.

As he’d instructed, I called his office the next day to set up whatever tests I needed to have done. But the staff did not have my information, so I had to continue calling back. When I called for the sixth or seventh time and said my name, the person on the other end sighed into the phone, like she was sick of my calls. That was all I needed to hear to know that I wanted to seek care elsewhere.

When I decided to look for a cancer center for my treatment, my first thought was to go to one of the renowned facilities in the northeast that everyone knows. If everyone goes there, then that must be where the best doctors are, right? But I didn’t want to be treated like a number, and feared that was how I’d end up at such an institution.

I had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America before I was diagnosed and had wondered if it was for real. It had to be scam; no hospital offers that kind of whole-person care. But now in the throes of a cancer diagnosis, I decided to call. I said to myself, “You know what? If it’s a scam, then I’m going to find out.”

After calling CTCA, I was scheduled for a consultation at the facility in Philadelphia, within driving distance of my home.

At CTCA, I underwent a mastectomy with intraoperative radiation therapy, or IORT, which is radiation administered during the surgery. After that procedure, I underwent eight rounds of chemotherapy.

The treatment was difficult sometimes. I lost my hair—it started coming out when I was at work one day—and I had pain in the long bones of my arms and legs, as well as numbness in my fingertips. Of all these side effects, the bone pain was the hardest to cope with.

During chemotherapy, I wasn’t staying at the hospital. Because I lived close by, I would drive myself back and forth for my appointments. When I felt sick after a treatment, I would just take it easy. I would have chemotherapy on Thursday, be back at work on Friday, feel sick on Saturday and Sunday, and be fine for work on Monday.

For the bone pain, my care team recommended a simple but unexpected medication that worked. My blood pressure was wavering, but the team helped stabilize it. I was given a vitamin regimen that helped with my energy levels.

Through all of these ups and downs, I was able to continue with treatment. Sometimes it was tough, but I had a mindset that if I laid down—if I succumbed to the weariness—that it was going to “catch” me, so to speak. I wasn’t going to let it get the best of me.

A year after my mastectomy, I had reconstructive surgery. The process could not have gone more smoothly. I had the procedure on a Monday, went home that day, and that Thursday I went for a job interview for a position that I now hold. I wanted to remove the drain tubes for the interview, and though my doctors were concerned at first, they understood and were on board with my decision.

Additional help was offered that was far beyond what I felt I needed. Reiki, chiropractic work, even reimbursement for gas mileage—I didn’t need these services, but I was amazed that they were offered.

But even more important than these services was the personal contact, the way I was treated by my care team, and by everyone at CTCA. When I go there, everyone knows my name. Even the person cleaning the bathroom calls me by name. How could they remember that? Why would they remember?

When I first arrived at CTCA for my initial assessment, I started hearing stories from many other patients. Hearing all the symptoms people were experiencing got to me; I started worrying that my condition was much worse than I thought. I returned to the office where I was meeting a doctor, and began crying. The nurse put her arms around me and then stayed with me during my appointment. It was a rough moment, and she got me through it.

And this care was given for my entire family, not just me. When my daughter came with me on the last day of my initial assessment, the CTCA staff took care of her the same way. This approach is so important to a cancer patient.

My first follow-up appointment was a few months after completing the eight rounds of chemotherapy. I was having a PET scan to check for the presence of cancer, but even before the scan, I had a feeling that I would be okay. Having been able to continue working while going through chemotherapy left me with the sense that I had overcome the battle.

Today, at 61 years old, I’m more active than many people I know who are younger. In addition to continuing my work as a transportation supervisor for regional schools, I go camping, ride horses, and drive fast cars. Truly there’s not much I won’t do. I ride roller coasters, eat hamburgers, and spend time with my new Maltese puppy, Tucker. Above all, though, I have my grandchildren to thank for helping me through cancer. They are the light of my life, and I want to live to see them grow up.

Facing a cancer diagnosis was hard, there’s no way around that. There is no one alive who has been told they have cancer and who didn’t wonder if they had just a few days to live. It’s unavoidable. But once I got past that fear and found the right place for treatment, I knew I was going to be fine. I just knew. You have to keep your ears open, your mind open, and your heart open.

My story begins in 2009, a few years before I was diagnosed with cancer. I weighed 260 pounds and was not in good health. At one point, I was taking about 10 different medications to keep my blood pressure under control. Eventually, I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. The medication I was prescribed upon receiving this diagnosis made me extremely dizzy and uncomfortable. When my doctor explained that my options were to take the medicine or get healthy, I finally decided to become responsible for my health. I changed my diet, ate healthy portion sizes, and exercised five or six days out of each week. Two years later, I was down to 190 pounds; my formerly 48-inch waist was now at 34.

But even though I was in the best physical shape I’d ever been in, I was still not well. I had stomach pain, mostly in the form of cramps. Antacids provided temporary relief but the pain returned and soon worsened. Medications prescribed by my doctor did not help. He recommended that I undergo some tests at the local hospital.

An ultrasound ruled out gallstones, but another scan, called HIDA, showed that my gallbladder was working at just over 25 percent of its capacity, far lower than the 36 percent considered to be the low end of normal. The physician recommended gallbladder removal and referred me to a local surgeon.

The surgeon wasn’t so sure about the diagnosis. My symptoms weren’t “textbook” signs for removal and he didn’t think my gallbladder was the source of the problem. However, I had the operation and the pain went away completely.

Although I should have felt relieved, I still felt awful. The pain was replaced by an inability to eat and keep food in me. During the following six months, I lost another 60 pounds. I stopped exercising because I had no strength and felt like I was becoming weaker with each passing day. A CT scan during my previous round of pain had shown a growth on my left kidney, and now my doctor referred me to an urologist for further examination. A needle biopsy was impossible for that location, so the urologist said he would check the growth again in six months.

Six months later, the lesion had grown half a centimeter. A PET scan revealed it to be a benign cyst, but that scan also showed enlarged lymph nodes around my pancreas. The urologist referred me to a cancer specialist for immediate testing.

After an endoscopy, when I woke from the anesthesia, I joined my wife and we waited for the doctor to tell us the results. “Well, you’ve got cancer,” I recall him saying. His words confirmed the suspicion I had been trying to ignore all that time. Without looking up, I asked him if the cancer could be cut out. “No,” I remember him saying.

As we drove home from the clinic, I called family members to tell them about the diagnosis. My mother mentioned to me that she’d been seeing commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and she thought I should call. In fact, she urged me to call, several times as we spoke. I’m a grown man—I was 60 when I was diagnosed—but there was no way I would ignore my mother’s counsel. 

The next day, I spoke with a representative from CTCA®, who got to work making arrangements for my initial consultation at the Chicago location. My wife and I were met at the airport by a driver and taken to a hotel. My mind was racing that whole first night. What would happen? What kind of tests would I have to undergo?

The next few days consisted of a thorough review of my health. Every question I had was answered. At the end of that initial evaluation, my medical oncologist reviewed my imaging scans with us, showed us the tumor, and explained his recommended treatment approach. He encouraged me to go home, consider his suggestion, and decide what I wanted to do. But I didn’t need to. “When can we start?” I asked him. “Right now,” he replied. About an hour later, I began my cancer treatment.

My treatment consisted of chemotherapy. Due to side effects, the regimen was changed, and I received the treatment every other week.

Faith turned out to be an important companion to me during cancer treatment. Earlier in my life, I had served as a church pastor, but had turned away from the church after some negative experiences. A friend who was also treated for and beat pancreatic cancer invited me to attend church services with her. After declining the first few times, eventually, I decided to accept the invitation. I knew that I needed something to help me find the strength to get through this difficult time. By the end of that service, I knew what I’d been missing, and my faith began to grow again.

This restored belief assisted me during my treatment. I was able to stay with the bigger picture, so that even when I was experiencing side effects, I could see this was just one more moment in my life that would pass. Undergoing chemotherapy helped me keep my priorities straight. I realized the importance of the relationships I have in my life, and I began telling the people I care about how I feel about them, how thankful I am that they are in my life. It also gave me the knowledge and compassion to reach out and help others having difficulties coping with their own personal cancer battle.

Imaging scans taken periodically during my treatment showed that the cancer was not progressing. At one point, the tumor shrunk. The halt in growth had enabled me to take three-month “chemo holidays,” or breaks from treatment that allowed me to recover and become accustomed to my new normal. I had three chemo holidays, which felt like a major success.

Then, when I returned to CTCA after the third break in treatment, my medical oncologist told me that my imaging scans showed no visible sign of cancer. “All we see is some scar tissue where it used to be,” he told me.

I know that this result may not last, and that my journey will continue. But I have learned to embrace it, not only as a necessary medical procedure, but also as part and parcel of my time here on earth.

Learning to speak with others about my diagnosis was a huge transformation for me. In coming to understand that cancer is not a death sentence, I became who I am today. I began speaking with others coping with the same fears, to provide whatever easement I could as they found their way. I joined the Cancer Fighters® Care Network and dedicated myself to being there for others in need. Finding this avenue for giving back has been invaluable. We are stronger than we give ourselves credit for, and I love reminding others of that any chance I get. 

Rather than a burden, cancer was an event that provided me with insights that I could share with others, to help them through their difficult times. Because it is connected to my restored sense of faith, sharing those insights feels like part of my life’s purpose. 

In August 2005, when I was 53 years old, I was still grieving the loss of my father, who had died of heart disease the prior November. I suppose I was tuned into more physical matters of the heart at that time too. One day, while I was washing my hands in the bathroom, the light was hitting my neck in just the right way and I noticed a bump. My first thought was there was something wrong with my arteries. I showed the bump to my husband and he took me to the emergency room at a hospital near our home in Shawnee, Kansas.

At the hospital, X-rays were taken and the doctor told me to return the next morning for a CT scan. There was a small mass visible in the X-ray, but the doctors weren’t sure what it was; a CT scan would provide a clearer view. When I returned the next morning, one person after another told me I needed two different scans because the radiologist had noticed a spot on my lung when he looked at my X-ray the previous night.

After the CT scans were completed, the doctor informed me I had cancer. He had already talked to my family doctor, who had said for me to go straight to him from the hospital. My family doctor then sent me immediately to a lung specialist. I ended up seeing three doctors about my diagnosis before I even saw my family.

The lung specialist sent me to a surgeon for a biopsy. After that, I went to a local oncologist, who told me the results of the biopsy. There was cancer in my left lung that had spread to lymph nodes and the center of my chest and neck. The spread of cancer to my lymph nodes was what I had spotted on my neck. The doctor told me I had stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.

At the time I was diagnosed, my husband and I had our own business. An employee told us he knew someone who had been treated for cancer at Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) in Tulsa, Oklahoma. I called CTCA before I started treatment at a local facility, and learned about TomoTherapy (a radiation treatment), integrative care and other things they offered. The care at CTCA sounded wonderful, but I would need to be away from my home and family for treatment. I decided I did not want to spend time away from my family.

I began treatment with the local oncologist, but was not satisfied with the treatment. So I called CTCA. A team of doctors reviewed my information and agreed to take me. Within days, my husband and I were on our way to CTCA in Tulsa.

After a week of testing and initial appointments with my care team at CTCA, we returned home. I then drove back so that I’d have a car with me during the weeks of radiation treatment I was to receive. Fortunately I was able to have a rotating roster of family and friends with me the entire time I was at CTCA, which had the added bonus of giving me a lot of extra quality time with my loved ones.

During those first seven weeks, I had radiation five days a week and chemotherapy once weekly. For three months afterward, I returned to CTCA every three weeks for chemotherapy.

After the disease was stabilized for four months, I had another round of chemotherapy. I was given a targeted therapy drug called erlotinib for maintenance therapy that I have been taking for several years. More recently, my doctors at CTCA found a spot on my right lung and I received CyberKnife® radiation therapy.

Luckily the chemotherapy was not too rough on me. Though I had a lot of nausea, I did not have vomiting or other severe side effects. One chemotherapy drug did cause a rash on my face, and my care team at CTCA gave me creams to help, along with anti-nausea medication.

The biggest problem continued to be radiation burns. At one point I was having so much difficulty swallowing—and therefore not drinking enough—I ended up in the hospital due to dehydration. I was given liquid pain medication to reduce the soreness in my throat, as well as creams to treat the burns.

There is no easy way to face a prognosis like the one given to me. I tried to make peace with the life I’d lived. But as difficult as this time was, it also drew me closer to my family. It made us stop to think about what is truly important in life, and helped me realize how much I cherish my family.

CTCA played a huge role in providing hope and support. The hospital was comfortable, which made all the difference. And after just a short time there, everyone on the staff felt like family. Every time I turned a corner, someone gave me a hug. It meant so much to my family too. They drew comfort from the fact I received such wonderful care. My family was also an incredible support system. My daughter Amy travels with me frequently to CTCA, and other family members have also been with me. My doctors never seemed to mind how many extra chairs we had to drag into the office.

Travel arrangements were effortless because all of that was done by CTCA. Insurance issues were also addressed. There was nothing for me to stress over so I could concentrate on getting well.

Yes, it was hard to be away from home in the beginning, but here I am alive, eight years later, so it was well worth it. I have seen three of my grandchildren graduate from high school. My husband and I, along with some other family members, went to Miami Beach right after my diagnosis. We now have a tradition of traveling somewhere together each year. My daughter also gave me a charm bracelet that she’s added to with each year of my life, a gift I treasure.

I attended a special event called Celebrate Life® held for five-year survivors at CTCA. As part of the event, I put a silver leaf with my name engraved on it on a decorative tree in the hospital’s lobby. What an unforgettable milestone. Today, more than eight years after my diagnosis, every day feels like a milestone because I live life as fully as I can.

There will always be trying times in life. Several family members have had to cope with serious illnesses in recent years. I try to be strong for my family, to show them you can make it through anything. And I try to live my dreams. I want to live each day like I don’t know whether I’ve got tomorrow.

In my early 40s, I began having mammograms twice a year, more often than annually because I have dense breast tissue. In late 2012, the mammogram showed no signs of cancer, but I was doing a breast self-exam and felt a lump. I asked the clinic where I had my mammograms performed to see if the pathologist had noticed anything at all, maybe a vague hint that warranted further testing.

In January of 2013, I saw a radiologist at a hospital near our home in Atlanta, Georgia,  and she was performed a biopsy. A few days later, on my 48th birthday, she called with my diagnosis. She wanted me to come back for more biopsies. Of the three total biopsies I had, two contained cancerous tissue.

It was strangely relieving to finally have the diagnosis. But that time in my life was also filled with difficulty. I had a daughter with cerebral palsy who died from renal failure just at the time of my diagnosis. But I made a promise to her in her last days that I would fight the disease, which is exactly what I proceeded to do.

My radiologist referred me to a surgeon at the same hospital. He recommended a double mastectomy. Even though the cancer was present in only one breast, the breast dense tissue increased the risk of a future malignancy not being detected, leaving me doing endless biopsies. I agreed with the recommendation, and in March 2013, I had a double mastectomy with reconstructive plastic surgery. I also had some lymph nodes removed.

After the procedure, the surgeon told me that I needed to see an oncologist for further treatment. I then went to a well-known hospital in the area to be tested for brca, a genetic variant associated with a particular type of breast cancer. While waiting for results, I saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) late one night, I figured I had nothing to lose and made the call.

From that first phone call, I had a good experience. My calls were returned promptly. All my questions were answered without anyone making me feel like they were in a rush. I felt like we—my family and I—had finally found a home, the response from CTCA® was a huge relief.

My treatment began in July and consisted of 25 rounds of radiation, administered every Monday through Friday for six weeks. Because we live an hour and a half away from the hospital, I decided to stay at CTCA during the radiation. My children were with me and we ended up having a wonderful summer there.

The atmosphere at the hospital enabled me to be free to heal. I could be mindless there, with nothing to worry about or tend to. The staff was personable. The food was wonderful. And I have a whole collage of all the paintings my daughters and I did with the mind-body therapy program.

I also began taking tamoxifen, which may help reduce the risk of cancer recurrence. When I began experiencing some side effects from this medication, my naturopath at CTCA worked with me to find ways to reduce these issues, such as an upset stomach. I was also given creams to treat radiation burns. If I was feeling depressed, I could speak with a mind-body therapist to find techniques to relax. When I experienced swelling in my arms as a result of the lymph node removal, a physical therapist taught me exercises to help control it.

CTCA also supported my husband, who was my caregiver and an incredibly great support to me. We had just been through such a difficult time in our family and now he was plunged into caring for me. The Care Team at CTCA answered all his questions and helped give him peace of mind that I was in good hands.

Coping with a cancer diagnosis isn’t easy. Not being certain about your health status, not being able to relax until you get those next test results—that’s stressful. But I learned to set the worries aside and take one day at a time.

Today I am feeling great. Because of my treatment at CTCA, which focused on my whole body and my mind, I feel like I have a second chance at life. After my last treatment, we took a cruise vacation and I remember sitting on the deck and looking at my daughters and saying, “we made it.”

I know that I made it through cancer because of the care and support that I was given. Everyone I met at CTCA, including other patients, became part of my support system. Having a doctor who listened to me and addressed my real needs gave me a sense of empowerment that helped see me through.

A few months before my diagnosis, I began noticing a lump, not visible, at the base of my genitals. I thought perhaps a lymph node was inflamed. There was no pain, and I wasn’t alarmed, but I knew something was there that shouldn’t be.

A local doctor who examined me saw a lump and sent me for a scan to determine whether there were any blood vessels connected to the lump. When the results came back, I was informed that I had a “testicular mass.”

I was referred to a local urologist, who surgically removed the mass. At a follow-up visit a week later, he told me the mass was cancerous. I had a million questions for him, so he referred me to an oncology practice nearby, where I received my exact diagnosis: stage I epithelioid sarcoma.

I had never had to think about cancer before. Of course I’d heard about people being diagnosed with it, treated for it and also dying from it. But I had never had a close relative suffer from it. My older brother was the person who suggested contacting Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I spoke with a man treated at CTCA through the Cancer Fighters Care Network®. He talked me through the whole process and assured me that I would receive a high level of care.

He was right. When I arrived at the CTCA® location in Newnan, Georgia, my first impression was that it did not feel like a hospital. I had a lot of anxiety at the beginning and the staff there helped calm me down. In fact, just being there helped calm me down. My experience there was a complete turnaround from where I’d come from.

My oncologist, Dr. Patricia Thompson, recommended another surgery to remove any remaining malignant tissue in the area, followed by 25 rounds of radiation. I decided to proceed with this plan. During the radiation treatment, I continued working in my maintenance job, driving to CTCA each day afterwards. Occasionally my fiancée would drive me, but mostly I was able to do this on my own.

The treatment went smoothly although I did need to pause partway through due to some burning. My Care Team prescribed a medicated cream to soothe the burns, which were partially due to my use of coconut oil early on in the treatment, which exacerbated this side effect. I have had some muscle tightness since the treatment was completed but no other side effects or complications.

It was very difficult to accept the fact that I had cancer. It is easy to fall into the trap of thinking, “why me?” and I did this for a while. And cancer can seem scary. Now, when I hear people talk about cancer with fear, I tell them, “Well, I’m over here, talking to people who are living.”

I am also grateful for my fiancée, who was with me every step of the way. She helped get me out of bed when I was tired. She started cooking more and changed her approach so that our meals are healthier. She has helped me become more active. And she helps stop my mind from wandering and worrying about cancer, because even now I can have moments where I feel like I need to look over my shoulder. She helps keep me on the path of hope and life. After putting it off following my diagnosis, we were married and I am feeling very lucky.

Anyone who is diagnosed with cancer should know that they can be treated at a place where they feel settled and in a way that they are happy with. If you’re not settled with your current situation, you can change it. Everyone should know this. I’m glad to have the opportunity to now encourage others to empower themselves to find the treatment that’s right for them.

My husband Bruce and I were active in the gym at least three times a week. In the early part of 2003, I was not feeling myself and I noticed my exercise routine was getting more difficult. In February 2003, I met a woman named Shelly, a registered nurse, at the gym. She and I hooked up together, lifting weights and doing abdominal exercises on the mats. She was still grieving over her sister, who had died of breast cancer six months earlier.

I asked Shelly why I felt worse after a workout, especially in the abdominal area, where I was bloated. She asked me if I had backaches. I told her that yes, sometimes I did. She told me that my symptoms could be ovarian cancer and that I should see a doctor. Well, that hit me like a ton of bricks. I made an appointment with my primary physician.

My physician recommended blood work and a test called Ca-125 tumor marker for ovarian cancer. Within a week, he called and said the Ca-125 came back 1119. When I asked what was normal, he said 0 to 35. He said he would make an appointment for me to have an ultrasound.

After that phone call, I felt devastated and wanted to see Bruce, who was at the gym. My emotions were all over the place and I was thinking, “No, it can't be cancer.” I drove to the gym and told Bruce and our friends the news from the doctor. They were also shocked and devastated and we all prayed right there.

Bruce and I went home, fell into each other's arms, and just cried. Our love for each other was stronger than ever before. He stood by me the whole way.

The ultrasound confirmed there was a mass and fluid. Within two days, I was in the O.R. at a well-known cancer hospital. The oncologist removed a two-pound tumor and a gallon of fluid that the tumor produced. I lost 10 pounds on the operating table.

When they brought me back to my room where Bruce was waiting, I could hear the oncologist tell Bruce that it was cancer and it was bad. He later told me that I had stage III ovarian cancer.

Shortly after, I went back to see the oncologist. He told me, as he was facing the wall, to find a cancer center for chemotherapy. I thought about how cold and business-like the doctors were. I had lost all hope with them and I felt out of control, hopeless and devastated. I wondered if it was worth fighting since the oncologist gave me a bleak report. I realized, though, that my hope and faith is in the Lord, not in these men who put the thought in my head that I was going to die. 

I prayed for the Lord to guide me to a cancer hospital that would treat the whole body, not just the cancer. As I prayed about this, He revealed to me about calling Donna, my stepmother. I thought: “Why her? Our relationship has been very strained and we aren't speaking to each other.”

Forgiveness is another part of healing. So I called Donna and we cried and forgave each other. Then I told Donna that I had cancer and I was looking for a cancer hospital that treats the whole body. She said she just saw the advertisement on television for Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA), and for some reason she wrote down the phone number. I called them the next day.

When I called CTCA, the Oncology Information Specialist (OIS) I spoke to told me they have a team of professionals who cover every aspect of the body, mind and spirit. They treat the whole person. That was what I was looking for—a team of doctors who would work together for me, and give me hope, encouragement and strength.

The OIS representative answered all my questions and concerns. I was getting hope back, and strength to fight the cancer. CTCA made all the arrangements for insurance, travel and lodging. With them taking care of all the arrangements, I could focus more on me.

When I walked into CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center, I knew I was in the right place. My first meeting with Dr. Sybilann Williams, who is not only a skilled gynecologic oncologist but a wonderful person, gave me her undivided attention when she spoke to me. She gave me options. I was part of the decision making and I wasn’t being treated as a number or a statistic.

Dr. Williams never talked about death. She talked about fighting and winning. Those words gave me the hope I was looking for in an oncologist. She explained to me about fractionated-dose chemotherapy, a powerful dose of drugs given in smaller doses over several days.

I had far less side effects at CTCA than when I was treated locally. When I had two treatments at a local cancer facility, my body reacted in a negative way. I was sick and my blood counts were lower.

At CTCA, I also met with a naturopathic clinician. She set me up with a complete nutritional program, which was designed for my particular type of cancer.

The doctors, nurses and staff were not only professional, but they were also helpful, friendly and encouraging. They made this journey easier to go through.

I was amazed at how experienced oncologists and other clinicians come together to form a team assigned specifically to each patient. They empower you with a range of healing options to help you fight cancer and enjoy a good quality life.

CTCA believes in treating the whole person, not just the cancer. They fight cancer on many fronts, through an integrated combination of the best medical, nutritional, physical, psychological and spiritual therapies. What more could I ask for?!

Now I believe what seemed like a disaster is only part of God's plan for me to experience, and to learn and help others. 

My past five years as a volunteer at CTCA have been very rewarding and exciting. In 2005, I was asked to appear in a CTCA TV commercial. It was exciting and fun, and the staff and the production crew were great. That same year, three other patients and I shared our cancer stories with the employees at the newly opened CTCA at Eastern Regional Medical Center in Philadelphia, where I now go for all of my checkups. I also presented John McNeil, the hospital’s President and CEO, with a painting honoring CTCA.

Then, in 2006, my husband and I were interviewed for Cancer Fighter magazine. I am now a member of the Cancer Fighter program, in which I am able to support other cancer patients.

In 2007, CTCA had a very successful “Runway for Hope” fashion show in Baltimore, Maryland. My husband and I participated with about 10 other patients. We were most grateful for the friendships that developed that day.

In 2008, I participated in a spiritual outreach program called "Our Journey of Hope®." During the program, I shared my journey with cancer and my experiences at CTCA.

Currently, I am organizing a presentation for the National Breast & Ovarian Cancer Coalition. I’ve been asked to speak to the coalition’s members in New Jersey. In addition, I am planning a fundraiser for Gateway for Cancer Research.

Throughout the last five years, I’ve reached out to many new patients. Each time I go to CTCA at Eastern Regional Medical Center, I let the patient advocates at the hospital know that I am available to talk with anyone who would like to speak with someone who has been through cancer. Who would have thought five years ago when I was fighting for my life, I would be helping others with cancer today? I am grateful and thankful to God and CTCA for these opportunities.

Once a year, CTCA has their Celebrate Life® for five-year survivors. At this event, the survivors are honored and recognized and plant a "Tree of Life." That event was very touching to me because the first time I arrived at CTCA, the driver made a point to show me the trees of life planted to honor previous cancer survivors. That was the first ray of hope for me, and I determined that I too would plant my tree. Three years ago, I had my "Celebrate Life" and I got to plant my tree. That was a big milestone in my life. Each day is a special gift from the Lord and I appreciate the blessings much more.

I felt honored to receive the invitation to participate in the groundbreaking of the newest CTCA hospital in Newnan, Georgia. As I put the shovel in the ground, I felt it was another step forward for ovarian cancer patients. CTCA is always on the cutting edge and it's exciting to see their newest hospital come to life!

When I was 49 years old, I began feeling some pain in my neck. During a lunch break from work, I went to my internist near my home outside Dallas, Texas. Little did I know that I would not be returning to work.

After listening to my lungs, my doctor sent me for an MRI. The imaging clinic staff member gave me a disk and told me to go back to my internist’s office. I knew then that something was wrong.

As my doctor looked at the images, she could see right away what was wrong. There was cancer in all five lobes of my lungs, all of my lymph nodes and my jugular vein. The pain I was having in my neck was from a blood clot.

I went straight to the hospital from my doctor’s office. I was put into a wheelchair and taken to the admitting area. Later that night, after a few x-rays were taken, 1.5 liters of fluid was drained from my lungs. I had surgery the next morning. A chest tube was inserted to drain fluid, a port was placed for chemotherapy and a hole was punched into my heart sac because it was severely swollen (3 quarts of fluid was then drained from this region).

My first husband died from cancer when he was 36 and I always regretted that we had never sought a second opinion. During my treatment, I kept copies of every scan and every report and sent them to another doctor. That practice turned out to serve me well. In the autumn of 2009, the doctors at the hospital where I was being treated were unable to eradicate a large mass. Chemotherapy would work for a treatment or two, and then the tumor would begin growing again. The nerves in my hands and feet were severely damaged from the amount of chemotherapy I had received.

I transferred to a different hospital where I underwent CyberKnife® surgery. That procedure shrunk the mass, but a few months later, I had five new tumors.

At that point, I decided to seek treatment at another cancer center. Just as I was about to transfer to a different facility, my niece called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). She spoke with a representative and explained what was happening with me. “I can’t lose her,” she said to the representative. “What can we do?” Feeling good about what she was hearing, she asked the representative to speak with me.

During that first phone call, I was struck by the kindness of the representative. When I met with my medical oncologist at CTCA, he told me that he agreed with my previous oncologists – there was no cure right now for the type of cancer that I had – but he felt confident that it could be treated. My medical oncologist gave me the little bit of hope that I needed.

At CTCA, I received chemotherapy, Tomotherapy® and CyberKnife surgery. Prior to each treatment, my doctor took the time to explain the side effects I might experience. Having watched my first husband suffer through cancer treatment, I found it very helpful to know what to expect. I also received guidance about dietary changes and had therapy to relieve the numbness in my hands and feet.

From the start, I knew that CTCA was on my side. Everyone on my care team, and even others who weren’t on my care team, knew my name. We had a private room for my infusions so that we could be as comfortable as possible.

During Tomotherapy, I stayed at CTCA for seven weeks, a time that spanned the holiday season. That was a difficult time, but I made it through with the support of everyone there.

When I was diagnosed, my niece was expecting her first child. Five years later, I was there to see this child start kindergarten. We’ve added more nieces and nephews to the family since then; I’ve seen graduations from college and high school; and my stepdaughter is expecting her first child.

On top of all these blessings, I’m feeling great. I had forgotten how good I could feel. I just did my first 5K. My husband and I went on a cruise to Tahiti. I also joined the Cancer Fighters® Care Net program so that I can be there for others who are going through what I’ve been through. I’ve taken on ministry duties at my church, working with people who are sick, elderly or otherwise unable to attend service. And I’m starting to get back to work.

It’s now six years since I was first diagnosed. I’ve gotten here through faith, the love from and for my family and the compassionate care provided by CTCA.

When I was 62 years old, I went to my primary care doctor for a complete physical. I wanted to have blood tests and a chest X-ray so I would have a baseline reading to refer to in future years. Because I am a former smoker, I was concerned about the long-term effects smoking may have had on my health.

Not long after I had the tests done, my doctor called to tell me I had small cell lung cancer. I saw a specialist for a biopsy to confirm the diagnosis. The specialist then referred me to an oncologist near my home outside of Spokane, Washington.

Before my appointment with the local oncologist, I spoke with a representative at Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). I had seen a television advertisement for CTCA and was aware of their hospitals. The representative I spoke with talked to me in detail about CTCA and what they had to offer, including traditional cancer treatments in addition to therapies like nutrition and naturopathy.

But I wasn’t ready to close the door on pursuing treatment at a local facility. I went ahead and met with the local oncologist, but I was discouraged by his approach and attitude. I then decided CTCA was where I wanted to be treated.

In August 2010, I traveled to the CTCA hospital outside of Phoenix and met with a medical oncologist who would become my rock throughout my treatment. His recommendation was four rounds of chemotherapy followed by nine weeks of radiation treatment and two more rounds of chemotherapy. At first, I was hesitant to say “yes” to the proposed treatment plan. But I felt safe in my medical oncologist’s care and agreed to go forward with the treatment plan he recommended.

The treatment was difficult, especially at first. During my first rounds of chemotherapy, I stayed at CTCA for five days at a time, receiving treatment each day. I then returned home for 21 days before heading back to CTCA for my next round of treatment. I had a port inserted for the chemotherapy.

After the first round of chemotherapy, I was quite ill with dehydration, nausea and vomiting. I was back home in Washington by the time the side effects set in, but I spoke with my care team at CTCA regularly and they helped me deal with the side effects. My medical oncologist also decreased the dose of my chemotherapy so I could better tolerate the treatment.

When it came time for radiation treatment, I stayed at CTCA for the duration. I believe being at CTCA during that time was essential to my healing.

Whenever I felt upset or nervous during my treatment, I spoke with a pastor at the hospital, my care manager or another patient.

At home, I am a caregiver to others, including my son, who lives in a group home and visits me often, and another relative who is autistic and requires care and who lives with me full time. Caregiving is what I do! So when it came time for me to be the one in need of care, it was difficult to move out of the driver’s seat.

CTCA was a place for healing. The atmosphere there was soothing and compassionate. My doctor, nurses and so many others there became my caregivers.

For that reason, I think staying at CTCA on my own ended up being the best thing for me. I was in emotional distress at the time, not only because of the cancer, but also as a result of difficulties in my personal life. CTCA became a retreat for me.

While I was going through radiation treatment, my father passed away. CTCA helped make arrangements so I could fly home for his funeral and return shortly after so I did not miss my treatment.

My health was my priority above everything else. The back-up caregiver staying in my home during that time left me with the peace of mind I needed to focus on getting well. The people I care for kept me motivated as well because I knew they needed me and I wanted to be there for them.

I came through my treatment a stronger person than I was before. After completing treatment, I celebrated by buying myself a pair of diamond earrings, which always remind me I’m a survivor.

I have follow-up appointments at CTCA every three months, and continue to feel healthy and strong.

Today I understand part of being empowered is understanding everything that comes to me in life is part of a journey. Whatever comes my way, I can handle it. My faith in God has also seen me through, bringing me both courage and healing.

I was diagnosed with prostate cancer in August 2010. My PSA level had been climbing; over the course of one year, it had doubled from 3.4 to 7.8, which was a red flag. In light of my family history of prostate cancer, I knew such a diagnosis was entirely possible, if not likely. Looking back now, I can see other symptoms, such as frequent urination at night, were ongoing, but at the time I didn’t realize they were connected to prostate cancer.

The first specialist I saw was a urologist here in Nashville, Tennessee. I felt like he treated me as a disease, and not as a whole person. A few weeks later, at another local clinic, another urologist did the needle biopsy that confirmed my prostate cancer diagnosis. He performed a prostatectomy (prostate removal) using the da Vinci robotic surgery system. But even though this surgeon informed me that the cancer had not spread beyond my prostate, my PSA level never became undetectable.

During the next few months, my PSA level continued to rise, from 0.2 to 0.4 to 0.8. I was told that this monthly doubling indicated that cancer was still present. My doctor told me I should undergo radiation treatment. When I asked if he would first try to find where the cancer was in my body, he told me that because the low PSA score indicated just a minimal cancer presence that it would be difficult to locate. I was disheartened that he would not suggest at least trying to look.

I decided to call CTCA, and in late March 2011, I went to the Chicago area hospital for an initial evaluation and returned a week later to begin radiation treatment.

From the start, my experience with CTCA felt guided, both in terms of the careful attention from the team there and in terms of something greater than ourselves. So many people I met during my treatment there have become good friends, beginning with Carrie, the Oncology Information Specialist who answered the phone when I first called.

I spent eight weeks in suburban Chicago undergoing radiation treatment. I stayed at the Guest Quarters West, which is for outpatients receiving care for a longer period of time. Regular activities were planned for us to get out and socialize if we cared to. Help was always at the other end of the phone line if anything was needed.

As a preacher and pastor, I love speaking with people, and I spent many hours at the hospital and in the dining room talking with the staff and patients at CTCA. I was even invited to speak to Mr. Stephenson and the Board of Directors of the hospital, and during my second month, I spoke with other groups of employees about coping with a cancer diagnosis and my experience with CTCA as a patient.  Being able to engage with others in this way was an important part of my healing experience.

When difficulties arose, the medical care was excellent. Not unexpectedly, the radiation caused some minor irritation, particularly toward the later stage of the treatment. My naturopathic oncology provider was able to recommend some supplements to help.

In September 2012, when my wife, Annette, and I visited the Georgia hospital during the grand opening of the new CTCA facility there in Newnan, my radiation oncologist from CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center, Dr. Eden, was also there. He called to us from across the lobby, having recognized us right away. A moment like that is an indicator of the personalized experience and care that CTCA exemplifies.

The diagnosis of cancer is terrifying, there is no denying it. Even after treatment, a kind of terror can remain about it coming back. But at CTCA, it’s the contrast between treatment and care that makes the difference. In some places, you are treated for cancer. At CTCA, you are cared for as a whole person with "care that never quits." I’m grateful for having been led to CTCA.

My wife has been part of every decision I’ve made about my cancer care along the way. As my caregiver, she has been included as part of my care team by the doctors and nurses at CTCA. They want to make sure that she is fully informed, knowing how important it is to have not only another set of ears but also another heart.

In the wake of my cancer diagnosis, my faith and my family are more important than ever. Annette and I have been married for 42 years, and we have two grown daughters and five grandchildren. One of the best moments in my life since completing treatment was baptizing my oldest grandson, Colby. But even the little moments are more meaningful today than ever before. I am thankful to have a strong partner in marriage, and going through this experience has brought us closer together.

Perhaps the biggest transformation in my life, though, is my outlook on life. I’m better at finding the good in life and remaining optimistic, no matter what. Cancer has had a major effect on my life ... and I’ll never look back.

When I was 41 years old, I noticed a little bit of blood in my urine. It occurred just once and was not accompanied by any other symptoms. I thought it was strange. Why would there be blood in my urine? So I went to the emergency room.

Originally from the Northeast, I used to work as a police officer, but now I stay at home with my three young daughters while my husband works. I’m rarely sick. I exercise. I don’t smoke and never have. So you can imagine my surprise when an ultrasound taken at the hospital showed a tumor in my bladder. The ER doctor could not confirm the diagnosis as cancer, but I was distraught.

That weekend, I was barely able to sleep. While flipping through TV channels late at night, I saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call. It was 1 a.m. on a Sunday, and I didn’t expect anyone to answer the phone, but an Oncology Information Specialist named Edgar answered. He stayed on the phone and talked with me. He listened and comforted me, encouraging me to wait until I had a clear diagnosis.

The next few days were a whirlwind. I was scheduled to see a urologist recommended by the hospital. I went here and there for one appointment and another. I needed an imaging scan, I needed to have blood taken, and I waited and traveled between each appointment. In the meantime, Edgar and a nurse from CTCA® kept in touch with me. Finally, I received the diagnosis. The tumor was malignant. I had bladder cancer.

I was in shock. There’s no other word for it. I was overwhelmed. This wasn’t a cold that I could get through in a few days. I was going to need serious treatment, and my outcome was uncertain. I felt lonely. One minute I’m a mom with three beautiful girls and the next minute I’m a cancer patient. And I had no idea what was going to happen to me.

From the start, my experience at CTCA was different. The whirlwind was gone. I received all the information I needed; all my appointments were scheduled; I was handed contact details. I saw all my doctors on the same day. I had tests and blood work, and the results were available almost immediately. There was no going home to wait, dreading the news to come. The environment of CTCA was unlike any hospital I’d been to before. The atmosphere was warm and inviting. The people were welcoming. I felt sympathy and understanding.

I underwent surgery to remove the tumor, but I was told that a tiny amount, measuring just 0.2 centimeters, remained in my bladder wall afterwards. My urologist, Dr. Shelfo, explained my treatment options as well as my medical situation, that the tumor was in the wall of my bladder, burrowed into the muscle. Dr. Shelfo explained to me that bladder tumors tend to have a high likelihood of recurrence, which needed to be factored into my treatment options. I understood that I could have topical chemotherapy to kill the cancer cells, or I could have a partial bladder removal, or I could have my entire bladder removed.

I decided to proceed with removal of my bladder, followed by reconstructive surgery to create a “neo-bladder” using part of my small intestine. This approach was the one that I decided was right for me, given my age and the life I want to live.

The people close to me were supportive during this time. I was scared to tell my children, but when I came home from surgery with a walker and tubes coming out of me, they were filled only with love. My mother became my nurse; my father drove me to every appointment and stayed with me because my husband had to continue working during this time. My in-laws took care of my children for most of the summer during my recovery. What more can a person ask for at a time like this?

My doctors and everyone else at CTCA were also part of my support system. I tend to think the worst and had a lot of anxiety during my treatment. I worried about every little thing. Dr. Shelfo would listen to my concerns but also discouraged me from searching too much medical information online. My medical oncologist, Dr. Taha, was also incredibly caring. Once, having heard I was upset about something, he called me at home on a Friday night just before he left for a vacation. I asked him why he was calling me, and he said he just wanted to make sure I was okay before he left.

My mind-body therapist gave me the time and space to express what I was feeling inside. I was so scared and had so much anxiety, and she reassured me that what I was feeling was normal. When I was at the hospital for a week after surgery, she came to sit with me and talk. Now that I am going to CTCA only for follow-up visits, she still visits with me and checks on how I’m doing.

CTCA is a community. From the first day, a patient is brought into that community with open arms. I felt safe there, and not alone. I had the company of other patients who were going through difficult times, and who helped keep me strong.

The most unexpected outcome from this experience is that I like myself better after going through cancer treatment. I am more patient and more caring. I was attentive to the needs of others before, but now I have so much more awareness. Having gone through a time of such need, now I want to be there for others even more. It is strange to say that I’m a better person for having had cancer, but it’s true.

Life after recovery is good. I am back to doing what I was doing before. I am exercising with weight training and yoga and am even jogging a little bit. The surgical procedure to create a neo-bladder has left no problems behind—my body works just as it did before my diagnosis. My husband and I have date nights and recently celebrated 11 years of marriage. I return to CTCA about every three months.

All I wanted was to have my normal life back again. CTCA gave me that gift. 

I was a 36-year-old mother of two when I was diagnosed with breast cancer. I do not have a family history of breast cancer. I am athletic and exercise regularly. I eat healthy and nutritious meals. I had recently completed a half marathon. I was not taking any type of hormone therapy. I had none of the risk factors normally associated with the occurrence of breast cancer in a woman younger than age 40. The diagnosis was a shock.

I was close with my doctor at the time, and we both cried when she called with the news. In that moment, I thought about all I treasure in life, what I value, what is important to me. And I knew right then that I would do whatever it took to get through whatever was headed my way.

At age 2, my son was still too young to know what was happening, but my daughter, who was 11 years old at the time, understood. That was the hardest part for me. I was so worried about how she would feel and how she would cope with the experience of her mother going through cancer treatment.

Once I had the diagnosis, I wanted to seek multiple opinions about what to do next. I wanted to know all my options. I knew I wanted to stay near my home in Atlanta. I was seeking an approach where I would be an active participant in the healing process.

Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) was the second place I called. I could feel how different it was from other health care facilities the moment I walked through the door. From that first moment, it was clear that CTCA® was focused on healing. It felt like everyone we met shared the same goal: to see each patient walk out the door after treatment and not have to return. After meeting everyone on my Care Team, I knew that CTCA was the right place for me.

A cancer diagnosis may bring an acute sense of losing control. You may start to feel that your life is suddenly out of your hands. Because of that, it is so important to be in the care of people you trust. It is essential to find ways to regain control, to take charge where you can. CTCA fulfilled both of these needs for me. I felt confident in my medical oncologist and surgeon. I was considered an active participant in my care. My doctors were always clear that the final decision at any step of the way was mine. The numerous integrative approaches available to patients at CTCA provide an additional outlet for regaining control. With so many supportive care services available under one roof, there was so much I could do to help myself. Whether it involved dietary changes, pastoral care or supplements recommended by my naturopathic provider, these supportive therapies helped me through treatment.

My treatment at the Breast Center for Advanced Oncology at our Atlanta-area hospital included chemotherapy, surgery and radiation. I had six rounds of chemotherapy every three weeks, followed by a double mastectomy and then six weeks of radiation. After the treatment was completed, I had reconstructive surgery.

Just before the surgery, my doctors wanted me to have an MRI so that they could see whether the chemotherapy had had an impact. I grew very nervous at this point. I remember going into the MRI machine thinking about how my doctors had done all they could up to that point, how I had tried to take care of myself and that we had all done our  best. I decided that no matter what they saw on the image, I would be happy with the result.

Music was playing in the MRI machine, a religious piece. I had spent a great deal of time focusing on my faith during the weeks of chemotherapy. Hearing that music connected to me spiritually. I began crying, and I knew that it was out of my hands, I wasn’t in control, and I was at peace with that.

Faith became one of the most important aspects of my experience with cancer and its treatment. I recall a pastor at CTCA reassuring me that it was perfectly okay to wonder why this had happened to me—to ask God why someone who has two children, who exercises and eats well, why this would happen. But, she said, don’t get stuck there. Don’t get stuck asking, “Why me?” Instead, let the question move into, “What are you trying to show me?” That question allowed me to stop worrying, to pray and give thanks to God, and keep going with my day. It allowed me to relinquish some control.

I had a great deal of help from the staff at CTCA. I had nutritional and naturopathic support, both of which helped me cope with treatment side effects and stay strong and healthy. I experienced very few side effects and nothing as severe as I had imagined when I first received the diagnosis.

My husband was also my caregiver, and he is the unsung hero of my story. I don’t know how he did all that he did, but he did everything. He drove me to appointments, took care of the children, took care of our home, and made me feel supported in every way. The drive to CTCA from our home was about one and a half hours, and he made it work every single time.

I was nervous about how my daughter would handle this time. But we got through it together. Above all, I explained to her that this was temporary, and we always emphasized the short-term nature of the treatment. I had a calendar where I could cross off the days of treatment so that we could see, every day, that this was a temporary situation. I kept a schedule and a timeline to remind all of us that cancer treatment was not for the rest of my life; it was only for a few months. I also kept a list of people we know who have been through cancer treatment and come through just fine.

For a little while, cancer treatment became my job. But soon enough, it was time to return to my regular job, and to our normal life. 

Yet life is different. I am more focused on teaching my daughter about healthy lifestyles. I am not as serious as I was before. I’ve learned to take things a bit more lightly. I am back to being physically active, and I cherish these activities more than I used to.

We are a little less rushed each day. We used to get through breakfast, through the school day, rush to after-school activities, eat dinner, then bedtime, and then the same routine the next day. Now, life is a little sweeter. I take a few extra minutes to appreciate the day and feel thankful for it. I am enjoying life more. I don’t worry about breaking up our routines and letting go a little bit. We are together, and we have our lives, and that is all we need.

With cancer, the mental battle is just as hard, if not harder, than the physical battle. And just like we have medications to fight the physical disease, you need tools to face the mental challenges. For me, faith became that tool. Now I continue to use that tool every day.

CTCA cared for me as a whole person. My doctors saw me, not just my disease. That approach gave room for all of me to be involved in my care, and I believe that made a great deal of difference in my outcome.

A hoarse voice seemed like nothing out of the ordinary. It was allergy season when it began, and I work in several capacities that all require a lot of speaking. But the hoarseness persisted, so I went to our family doctor, who prescribed antibiotics to treat what may have been bronchitis. Nothing changed. A few weeks later my voice cleared up, but the hoarseness returned two weeks later. The doctor thought allergies were the culprit and I tried another round of antibiotics, but again nothing changed.

I decided to see an ear, nose and throat doctor. He checked my vocal chords and saw a growth, which he thought could be scraped off. He did a biopsy to rule out cancer, but the results came back positive. In November 2003, at age 52, I was diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx.

The specialist suggested removing the growth, but I decided to meet with a radiologist before proceeding with surgery. In the meantime, my wife was pursuing a different course of action. She was working in the emergency room of a hospital and remembered that a colleague of hers had a friend who had been treated for cancer several years earlier. She tried to find out where that friend had gone for treatment, and somewhere along the way in that search she came across Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA).

She spoke by phone with an Oncology Information Specialist and then told me to call. I had never heard of CTCA® and I knew nothing about cancer. I was familiar with stress and its related physical problems, but not cancer. Still, my wife’s response to that first call and my initial experience on the phone were enough to sway me toward pursuing treatment at CTCA. By early December, we were in Tulsa for a consultation at Southwestern Regional Medical Center. After that first visit, I knew that the only way I would be returning to our home in North Carolina was after I was treated at CTCA.

For the next several weeks I stayed in Tulsa to undergo radiation and chemotherapy at CTCA, returning home during this time only for four days during the Christmas holiday.

There were no side effects at first, aside from a sore throat from the radiation, which I had anticipated. During the five chemotherapy treatments, given on a four-week rotation, my taste buds became numb for a few days immediately following each infusion. The first time this side effect appeared, my wife and I were having lunch at a Mexican restaurant we frequented. That day, the food tasted so strange. Then I remembered that during a class on chemotherapy that I’d been to at CTCA, the instructor mentioned that chemotherapy could affect the sense of taste.

Still, that problem was nothing in light of the extraordinary care I received at CTCA. The atmosphere of the hospital and the attitude of the staff were so uplifting. I felt so at ease during my stay. The almost immediate availability of test results eliminated a great deal of stress.

My caregivers were also treated like part of the CTCA family. My wife stayed with me for a week and a half, and during that time had everything she needed. My mother attended several classes at the hospital, including a cooking class.

During my treatment I met with an ear, nose and throat specialist for weekly check-ups. At four weeks into the initial treatment, I had several tests—imaging scans and blood work—to measure the effects of the treatment. There were no visible signs of cancer. I continued with chemotherapy as a precaution, but every test since then has indicated no presence of cancer.

When someone is newly diagnosed with cancer, speaking with someone who has been down the same road can shed some light and give some hope. The initial diagnosis can knock you off your feet. It turns your world upside down. But other patients and caregivers lent me their strength. During my stay at CTCA, we would build each other up. Everyone has a bad day from time to time, but we were there for each other. We were a community.

When I thought that I might have to have my vocal chords and voice box removed, I couldn’t see how I would live. How would I support my family? But once I found CTCA, I realized that I’d found a place that cared about me as a whole person, where the clinicians would take time to answer my questions and address my concerns, and where I could be healed.

Today I am a cancer survivor. When I return to CTCA for check-ups, I receive the same warm welcome I did when I first walked through the door. And now I can be that same warm presence for someone else arriving for the first time.

One morning in 2009 when I was getting dressed, I felt something underneath my left breast. My sister had been through breast cancer, so I called her first to tell her what I’d felt. I scheduled a mammogram, but the soonest appointment was Monday, after the weekend. My sister advised me to tell the imaging clinic that the mammogram couldn’t wait. The office had me come in that same day.

The technician at the imaging clinic, near my home in Springville, Utah, saw something on the mammogram. An ultrasound revealed the same mass, and the next step was a biopsy. The results of that last test confirmed I had breast cancer. I was 44 years old at the time.

The imaging center sent the results to my general practitioner, who scheduled me for an appointment with the same surgeon who had operated on my sister. The surgeon recommended a double mastectomy.

I wasn’t ready to take that step. I wanted to know if there were options before deciding to remove both of my breasts. So I also met with an oncologist and a radiologist.

Everything I was hearing was discouraging, and I wasn’t ready to proceed with any of the recommendations. I made the decision to not pursue medical treatment. I stopped eating meat, dairy and cooked food and attempted a natural healing approach of eating all fresh, raw and organic fruits and vegetables. I told my family that if the cancer was still in my body after six months, then I would go through with a double mastectomy.

By February 2010, the cancer was still present. At that point, I was ready to proceed with the surgery and underwent a double mastectomy. I wasn’t ready to have extensive chemotherapy or radiation, but I did have one round of chemotherapy. After that one round, I decided against any further treatments.

After my surgery and chemo treatments, I saw an advertisement online for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) that highlighted their inclusion of integrative approaches like nutrition and acupuncture. I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist, who explained that patients are treated with conventional cancer therapies, but that other modalities are often used to help counteract side effects and help with recovery. I agreed to go for a consultation visit, but was not committed to pursuing treatment.

I traveled to the CTCA® facility in Illinois in September 2010, and very quickly grew comfortable with the idea of having additional chemotherapy and radiation treatments. The difference—what made me able to say yes—was that I felt like I was being treated as a human being, a whole person. I got the sense that the team I was meeting with truly cared about me. They were creating a plan that would help me, and explained that if it wasn’t working, they would adjust the plan. And I had a say in that plan—I was part of the team. It was an agreement we could come to together.

Then, as I was leaving the facility at the end of my initial consultation, I had horrible pain in my neck and was taken into the emergency room at CTCA. I was too scared to have an MRI. One of the doctors had me do a CT scan and found a break in my neck. I was then taken to a nearby hospital where I had surgery on my neck. Later, I was told that the break was due to a tumor on the C2 vertebrae in my neck. I went home to recover and returned two weeks later to begin radiation and chemotherapy.

I had three rounds of chemotherapy at CTCA along with radiation. After the third round of chemotherapy, my tumor markers had dropped, and I had no evidence of cancer.

The treatment did have side effects. The chemotherapy gave me an upset stomach. The radiation on my throat caused swelling. At one point, I was admitted as an inpatient, and the nurses made every effort to keep me comfortable. If I pushed the button to call for help, someone was there almost immediately. My care team assisted with my discomfort with acupuncture, massage, reiki and physical therapy.

Throughout my treatment, my mother was right by my side. She was an excellent caregiver. I’m grateful she was there to help. The staff at CTCA treated her just like they treated me. If she needed anything, there was always someone to help her out.

In November 2014—five years after my initial diagnosis—I celebrated my 50th birthday. I have had additional treatments though. In May 2014, a tumor on my spine was discovered and the vertebrae was drilled out and filled with bone cement at CTCA. I have also had additional radiation and chemotherapy. Right now, as of August 2017, there is again no evidence of cancer. I continue to travel to CTCA for check-ups every six months. Although I still lack some energy, I feel good. Today, I am thankful for all the time I have to spend with my four children and seven grandchildren. I feel that CTCA helped me get my life back.

I refused to be scared of cancer. I never gave up and never accepted that cancer was going to kill me. In my mind, it was just another disease and I would get through it by leaning on my faith. I believe that my insistence on a better way led me to the right place, and I’m grateful for the care I have received at CTCA.

I’m a retired home builder. I have been my whole life. I am the third generation in my family to build. I come from a family of five sisters, so I was the natural choice to pass down the family trade.

I married my college sweetheart, Cathy, and we live in Virginia. Together, we have two grown children and two grandchildren. They light up my life, and I love them all. Life was good, and we were all very happy.

But in early 2016, I was hospitalized after returning home from my daughter’s wedding in the Dominican Republic. I had flu-like symptoms, including severe joint and muscle pain, swollen lymph nodes, headache, fever and exhaustion. After several tests, including a CT scan, it was determined that I had contracted dengue fever. I completed treatment and began feeling better.

Then in July 2016, I just wasn’t feeling myself again. I am pretty stubborn, so it took a while before I finally gave in and went to see a doctor. We ran some tests, and my bloodwork was abnormal. So I went in for another CT scan.

When my new CT scan results were available, they compared the new scans to the old ones. That’s when they found a mass on my pancreas that wasn’t there six months ago. A biopsy confirmed my worst fear—I was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

I traveled to the recommended medical center to formulate a plan to fight this cancer. I completed additional tests and then met with the medical oncologist. That is when I was told that the cancer had metastasized to my liver, and I was diagnosed with stage IV pancreatic cancer. My prognosis did not look good. I was in shock.

All I wanted was hope, and instead, I felt like I had to get my affairs in order. My friends and family were checking in to see how I was doing, and I told everyone that I didn’t have much time.

My wife wasn’t going to give up, and she started researching and looking for options. She found a story about a woman who had stage IV pancreatic cancer and is now a survivor. She had gone to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). So I called the hospital system, figuring if she could do it, I can, too. Within a week, I was at CTCA® near Chicago for an initial evaluation with a team of doctors and clinicians.

The first day, I met with a medical oncologist, and halfway through the meeting, six nurses come in the room with a birthday cake, singing “Happy Birthday.” It was my first day at the hospital, and that kind gesture made it clear to me that CTCA was caring and compassionate.

The next day, I met with my entire care team, including doctors and supportive therapy staff. Together, we formulated a personalized treatment plan. The first step was chemotherapy. It was Friday, and my care team asked me if I wanted to start on Monday. I wasn’t really planning on staying that long, but my wife was encouraging and told me not to wait.

I spent months going back and forth from home to CTCA for treatment. Sometimes, people would question why I was going to Chicago and not treating closer to home. But the care I received at CTCA was like nothing I had experienced before. I never felt alone at CTCA. All of the employees, from the infusion nurses to the café workers, knew me and greeted me with smiles. I also had the company of other patients who were going through the same journey I was and helped keep me strong.

Fortunately, I was also able to have a rotating roster of family with me the entire time I was at CTCA. If my wife couldn’t be there, one of my sisters would come. I enjoyed the extra quality time with my loved ones. It also helped my extended family to see the unique care that CTCA provides and why it was important for me to travel for treatment.

I looked at survival rates, and I knew my odds at beating pancreatic cancer were not good. But I knew I had to try for my family. I couldn’t just give up. Almost immediately after starting treatment at CTCA, we started seeing results from the chemotherapy. The tumors in the pancreas and liver began shrinking.

Luckily, the chemotherapy was not too rough on me. I experienced some nausea, pain and neuropathy. CTCA helped me manage my side effects by providing supportive care therapies at the hospital. It made it so convenient for me to go from infusion to acupuncture. I also saw a dietitian and naturopathic oncology provider who communicated regularly with my oncologist and the other members of my cancer team. The pain management team helped me manage my pain and enjoy a better quality of life.

After about year of treatment, I completed another PET scan. The results showed no signs of cancer on my liver or lungs and only a suspicious area on a lymph node. So I began oral chemotherapy and started seven radiation therapy sessions in July 2017. I believe I am on my way to recovery.

Yes, it was hard to be away from home in the beginning, but here I am alive, a year later, so I know it was all well worth it. I stay strong for my family, to show them that you can make it through anything. My wife has been an amazing caregiver, and I know that I wouldn’t be here without her.

I continue to enjoy life. We took a vacation to Hawaii, and the trip made me feel rejuvenated. I needed the time off from treatment to find a new sense of determination to fight the cancer. I believe a positive attitude is important when going through a cancer journey.

I enjoy my time at CTCA seeing familiar faces, and everyone is always so friendly. But away from CTCA, I still live my life. I enjoy fishing, martial arts and kickboxing. I recently got a new dachshund puppy that we named Chemo. I love spending time with my family. I don’t know what the future holds, but I live each day as if there’s no tomorrow. 

Because I had a heart attack some years ago, I now have blood work done every six months so that my primary care physician can monitor my health. When I was almost 54 years old, my physician ordered a prostate specific antigen (PSA) test and my level was elevated. A spiking PSA level can be an indicator of prostate cancer, so he recommended that I see a urologist.

The urologist did a biopsy, taking several tissue samples. Three of the four quadrants he tested had traces of cancer. The diagnosis was a complete surprise, but thankfully the cancer was caught very early on. My wife and I attribute this early detection to the fact that I was having blood tests on a regular basis. A random PSA test changed our lives.

The urologist explained my options. I could have radiation pellets implanted, which would kill the cancer cells; I could hold off on any treatment because the disease was at such an early stage; or I could have my prostate surgically removed.  

I did not hesitate with my response. I wanted the cancer removed. The best and easiest way to ensure that was surgery. So, in January 2011, I underwent a full prostatectomy at a hospital near our home in Illinois. I was hopeful that this procedure meant the end of my experience with cancer.

Three years after the prostatectomy, my urologist noted that my PSA level was beginning to elevate again.  He recommended that I see a radiation oncologist.

Before proceeding any further, my wife and I stopped to talk about what we wanted to do. We wondered if it might be time to get a second opinion and do some further research on our own first, rather than following one professional’s advice. We had thought the prostatectomy meant the end of cancer, and now here we were again. It was time to explore all our options.

My wife’s cousin had been treated for cancer at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) several years earlier and my sister-in-law was currently being treated at CTCA, so we decided to call. We were told I could go to the Arizona location. I agreed to travel there for a second opinion, and planned to make a decision about my care after hearing what the doctors at CTCA had to say.

During our first two days in Arizona, we listened and talked and came to understand more about prostate cancer than had ever been explained to us before. Their recommendation for this second treatment was 38 rounds of radiation.

After two days, I turned to my wife and said, “I’m not leaving.” I had made my decision: I would remain at CTCA for treatment. I was there for nearly two months.

When I walked into the hospital in Arizona, I felt at home. Everyone from the greeter to the janitors to the clinicians feels like family.

I underwent 38 rounds of radiation, administered once per day for five days each week. My radiation oncologist gave me a list of recommendations that would help me handle the treatment better. He suggested that I go for a walk immediately after treatment, try to stay physically active to keep fatigue at bay, and eat properly. I followed these guidelines exactly. By the time my treatment was complete, I was walking 3.5 miles per day. I believe that following these suggestions helped me handle the treatment; I did not experience any side effects.

When my first radiation oncologist changed hospitals during treatment, Dr. Chong joined my Care Team®. The transition was seamless and I always felt that I was in good hands, and that no details about my care were being missed.

The support I received was wonderful. I had acupuncture, physical therapy, chiropractic work and met with the ministry. I developed friendships with the nurses and technicians that I will value for the rest of my life.

Being 1,600 miles from home was difficult at times. My wife was with me for the first two weeks, but was back home for the remainder of my treatment until the last few days. We are a close family, and all our children are within eleven miles of home. But I figured out how to use Skype, which made the time away much more bearable. And CTCA made it possible for my wife to follow my care. She was able to read test results on the personal patient page CTCA created for me, and any questions she had were always answered promptly.

After my treatment was completed, I had some final blood tests. When the results were in, Dr. Chong came into the room and said to me, “Stand up!” I asked him what he meant and he told me to stand up. So I stood up and he hugged me. He told me that the cancer was now nonexistent in all of my tests.

Upon starting treatment at CTCA, my goal was to see all my grandchildren married. With a 13th grandchild currently on the way, I know I need to stick around for a long time.  The pictures my grandchildren sent me while I was in Arizona kept me going, but so did the friends I made at CTCA. If another patient appeared to be having a hard time, I would stop and talk. Lifting their spirits lifted mine, too. When I was staying at the hotel in Arizona, several of us would get together each day. I made friends from all over the place who I keep in contact with.

I have returned to life as normal. Today, I can do the carpentry projects that I enjoy, spend time with my loved ones, and I have the bonus of a newfound friendships and an extended family in Arizona.

In November 2010, I went to see a doctor after months of experiencing a health problem. I had quite a bit of testing done, including a test for PSA. My PSA level at that time was 14.0. I was immediately sent to have a biopsy and that’s when I received my second cancer diagnosis. I had stage IIB prostate cancer.

I wanted to look into treatment options other than what my doctor had recommended. In particular, I did not want to have surgery. I thought if I could do anything to take care of the cancer without surgery, that's what I wanted to do.

I knew a number of people from our village that had gone to Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) and liked it. I had also seen some ads for CTCA on TV and in a magazine. I thought it was worth looking into. Also, because we live in Ruidoso, New Mexico, a rural resort community that’s 7,000 feet up in the mountains, we’re a good three-hour drive from the nearest big city, Albuquerque. I had already been driving many miles and hours back and forth between Ruidoso and Albuquerque for radiation treatment for lymphoma, so no matter what, I would have to travel some distance for treatment. In my mind, traveling further didn’t matter. What was most important was getting the best treatment for myself.

My wife Janet looked at the CTCA website for information and chatted with John, an Oncology Information Specialist. The next day, I had a 20-minute phone conversation with John, who answered my questions about CTCA and provided additional information. I gave him my insurance information so CTCA could check to see if my carrier would help cover the cost of my treatment at CTCA. I didn't have to do a bunch of research. I didn't have to dig through files and make phone calls to see what my deductible was or anything. CTCA took the ball and ran with it.

Within a couple of days, John called to let me know my insurance qualified and I could go to CTCA for evaluation and treatment. They set up my travel arrangements and about 10 days later, Janet and I were on our way to the CTCA hospital outside of Chicago by the first of May.

When I arrived at CTCA, I quickly registered as a patient. I was given a printout of my schedule for the week, which included several appointments with doctors and other care providers who were onsite at the hospital. In five days, I would have every medical test I needed and a treatment plan from my care team. By this time, my PSA was up to 19.

I met with my medical oncologist, Dr. Thompson, who walked me through my treatment options. I then met with my radiation oncologist, Dr. Patel. They recommended hormone therapy (Lupron shots) and radiation treatment (Calypso® with Image Guided Radiation Treatment). I made my decision right then. I was confident my CTCA doctors could take care of the prostate cancer without surgery.

Dr. Patel explained to me how Calypso worked and I was amazed. I started treatment that month. I received radiation treatment five days a week for three months. In total, I had 40 radiation treatments. I also had hormone therapy for six months.

Toward the end of my radiation treatment, I did have some side effects, primarily diarrhea and trouble urinating. I took medication for the urination problem. My doctors did everything they could to alleviate the side effects. My naturopathic provider also offered suggestions for supplements to help lessen the side effects. Once I completed the radiation treatment, the side effects gradually went away.

My entire care team was terrific. My doctors spent a lot of time getting to know me. They asked about my feelings and what experiences I had as I was going through treatment. When they came up with a treatment plan, they asked me, "Does this sound comfortable to you? Is this what you want to do?" And if it wasn’t exactly what I’d wanted to do, they would tweak the plan. They made the treatment plan fit me.

As part of my treatment at CTCA, I also received Reiki therapy, acupuncture and massages. Both Janet and I are trained in Reiki therapy, so to find a hospital that endorses and offers supportive modalities fit our lifestyle. All of the integrative oncology services CTCA offers go along with making you feel better. They give you the relaxed feeling that everything that can be done is being done. I know from my previous cancer treatment at another facility that I didn’t have any of that feeling of support.

Overall, I felt pretty good during my treatment. When I wasn’t at the hospital for appointments or treatments, or resting at the nearby CTCA Guest Quarters where I stayed, I went to the Lake Michigan beach that was a few miles away to do one of my favorite things—soak up the sun. I also rented a car and made trips to Milwaukee and Chicago to sightsee. And I’ll never forget driving with Janet to Illinois Beach Park to watch the fireflies one night. We thoroughly enjoyed seeing those fireflies as it’s something we don’t see at home.

People were friendly at CTCA. The staff knew me and called me by name every time I was there. And they anticipated my needs. They made my life during treatment as easy and stress-free as possible. That's why they even have their own travel department to coordinate airline reservations and transportation.

We couldn’t get over the fact that the hospital doesn’t look like a hospital. It felt like we were in a fine hotel. There’s a beautiful atrium, carpet on the floor nearly everywhere, and it doesn't smell like a hospital. There’s also a concierge. Have you ever seen a concierge in a hospital? That's just unheard of. The concierges helped facilitate needs we had like checking luggage and telling us where things were located in town.

Another thing I was impressed with was I hardly ever waited in a waiting room for more than 10 minutes for any appointment, test or treatment. And whenever I would have lab work done, everything was done onsite and I got my results the same day.

I felt like everyone that worked at CTCA gave from their heart. They were truly concerned about me and wanted me to get well. My care team totally listened to me and did whatever I was comfortable with. They gave me recommendations, but I had the final choice on my treatment.

One of the really neat things about CTCA is they take care of the caregivers too. They know for the patient to be taken care of, the caregiver has to be healthy and focused on helping the patient get better. Janet was able to eat the same healthy and delicious meals I ate, and enjoy some of the integrative oncology services like massages. She was also able to go with me to appointments. CTCA understood it was important for her to share the experience with me.

I never had a doubt CTCA was where I needed to be for prostate cancer treatment. I successfully completed my radiation treatment on July 22, 2011 and had my last hormone injection that fall. I will continue to go to CTCA periodically for checkups to ensure the cancer does not return.

The main goal for me once I completed treatment was to get back to work and enjoying life. Working at my restaurants, getting back to what I did before the cancer, meant everything. It’s my thing to be with my customers and serving the community, and I’m so happy to be doing exactly that.

In 2007, I had a mammogram and an MRI that showed a growth on my right breast. I underwent surgery, which revealed the growth was benign. However, because of that incident, my doctor recommended having an MRI or mammogram every six months as a precautionary measure. In October 2011, I had an MRI and received a phone call from the surgeon who did the procedure in 2007.

The surgeon informed me I had cancer in the other breast. She told me I could have a lumpectomy, mastectomy or a double mastectomy, and said I should call her back when I had decided. I was glad someone had spotted the problem, but I was disturbed by the lack of sympathy or anything beyond the clinical and abrupt talk during that phone call.

I had an online chat with a representative from Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). I was airing my grievances about my interaction with the surgeon, and wanting to know if CTCA would be any different. The representative took my phone number, and I got a call from an Oncology Information Specialist. He spent two hours on the phone with me talking about what CTCA offered before he took my insurance information. That call left me with a sense of relief. Here was an organization where people went out of their way to express that they cared about you as a person and took the time to explain what was possible. I arranged to visit the CTCA hospital in Philadelphia for a consultation.

A friend of mine joined me for that consultation, stopping on our way to visit another friend of ours who had advanced stage ovarian cancer. My traveling companion is often skeptical when things sound too good to be true, and she felt this way about CTCA as we were making our way there. By the time we left two days later, she was shaking her head in disbelief. In tears, we both acknowledged that we wished our other friend had known about and had treated at CTCA.

My doctors at CTCA recommended that I receive intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT). With this approach, radiation is administered once during surgery.

My mother had a mastectomy in 1964, as did two of my aunts on her side of the family. None of them died from cancer. This family history was a major factor in figuring out the appropriate treatment for me. I also wanted something as minimally invasive as possible so I could get on with my life as soon as possible. The IORT procedure provided me that.

Yet there was still some unknown. Until the surgery was done, no one can say for sure how large the malignancy was. Fortunately, the tumor turned out to be just .47 cm, and I had a minimal number of lymph nodes removed (three).

The night after my surgery, I slept well. Hospitals are often noisy, but at CTCA, the nurse came to ask if I’d like the door closed and the lights out. After a good night’s rest, I was ready to go home the next day.

In addition to the medical care, I also received wonderful treatment as a person at CTCA. My flight was late the night before surgery. I’d been scheduled for a Reiki treatment (I thought it would calm me down), but I arrived too late for my Reiki appointment. For some reason, I got very upset. I was nervous and emotional about the surgery. Just as I was falling apart, a reverend at CTCA came around the corner in the hallway and asked if I was OK. He sat with me for about half an hour. Once I’d calmed down, he asked if I wanted his company before the surgery, and I said, "Absolutely." The next morning he was there just as he’d said.

Reverend Barry wasn’t the only one to provide this kind of treatment. Aking Beverly, who was a scheduler at the time, was always able to help straighten out any difficulty I had with my schedule...even after normal scheduling hours were closed. We don’t always realize there are people looking out for patients’ needs. These two individuals exemplify the extent to which patients are considered at CTCA. They don’t just think compassion, they demonstrate it.

I am now a Cancer Fighters® Care Net volunteer because of the care and compassion I received from CTCA. I share my story with potential patients and encourage them to consider going to CTCA for a second opinion.

The fear of the unknown can be a great challenge when coping with a cancer diagnosis. But now I am through to the other side: survivorship. Last year I traveled to Russia, and I am much more active and living my life to its fullest. I look back and wonder where I would be now if I had not gone to CTCA.

The problem began in a subtle way. For about a year and a half, I’d been having trouble swallowing on and off. Sometimes everything was fine, but other times, swallowing food felt like trying to cram a bowling ball through a straw. One day, I mentioned the problem to a coworker, who said he had experienced the same problem. He said the doctor had prescribed medication. He now takes one pill a day, and everything is fine.

In the fall of 2011, I tried a prescription reflux medication, but in mid-November, at my doctor’s urging, I ended up having an endoscopy. After I came to from the anesthesia, my wife, Sarah, and our 4-month-old daughter were there. My doctor told us that she was 99 percent sure I had cancer. I was 33 years old at the time. Sarah was hit hard by the news. I was still groggy, so I didn’t feel the impact. Sarah told me later that my first question was whether I would lose my hair, which was a little funny because I am bald. My doctor did a biopsy so the tissue could be analyzed directly for cancer. She said she would have the results for us on Monday. Later, as I regained my alertness, I really didn’t believe the diagnosis—until we received the call on Monday telling us that the biopsy confirmed it.

That was a hard moment of facing reality. I live a very healthy lifestyle. Yes, I have fast food once in a while, and I battle an on-and-off addiction with sugary soft drinks. But I don’t smoke. I don’t chew tobacco. We cook healthy meals at home. I exercise at the gym five or six days a week, and I am in good shape. I really thought our doctor would call on Monday to tell us she’d made a mistake.

There was no reason to delay treatment. I met with an oncologist near our home in Omaha, Nebraska, and had six weeks of chemotherapy and radiation followed by an esophagectomy in March 2012. After the surgery, I had quarterly check-ups. In December 2013, the doctor called to tell me that although the areas where the surgery and radiation were directed looked fine, there were some worrisome spots. One of these was right outside my lung, accessible for biopsy. The results confirmed the spot was cancerous.

Two days before Christmas in 2013, my wife called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). She spoke with someone for a while, then called me to say that I would be receiving a call from Illinois and I had to answer it. I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist, and in a matter of hours I was approved for treatment at CTCA®. They were ready for my arrival on Christmas Eve, but I needed a few more days. We arrived on December 29, and I met with an oncologist the next day. I also met with an oncology nurse, my care manager, the travel coordinator, the finances administrator and many other members of my Care Team. I had a PET scan, a CT scan and other diagnostic tests.

On New Year’s Eve, Dr. Pollock told me I had three options. We could do nothing and just wait to see how things progress—we all agreed this was not the approach we wanted to take. Another option was robotic radiosurgery on three spots. The third option was chemotherapy. He explained that because radiation could miss small areas, his recommendation was chemotherapy. I agreed, and we started treatment.

For the next nine months, I was at CTCA every three to four weeks for chemotherapy, receiving a total of 10 to 15 rounds in all with capecitabine and oxaliplatin. The side effects were fairly minimal. I had some neuropathy for about a week after each oxaliplatin treatment, and I had to be careful with cold temperatures. The nurses warned me about how to handle this issue, counseling me to make sure I was properly dressed for winter weather, since I would be extremely sensitive to the cold and would feel a tingling sensation to any exposed skin. Any other issues that came up I was able to manage on my own. I continued working full time and going to the gym.

By March 2014, two of the spots that had shown up in the imaging scan were gone. By August, an imaging scan showed no visible signs of cancer. In September, a battery of tests all confirmed that the cancer was in remission.

As I healed from cancer, my family grew. When my wife and I first arrived at CTCA, we didn’t know she was pregnant. We had resigned ourselves to being a family of three because we thought my cancer and treatment would make a second child impossible. A couple of days later, my wife told me she was pregnant. My oldest daughter, who was 4 months old when I was diagnosed, is four years old now.

During this time, my Care Team at CTCA became part of our extended family, and they remain that way today. We interact on social media. They ask about my daughters. I get text messages asking how I’m doing.

Dr. Pollock was all I could ask for in a doctor. He never sugar-coated anything; he was always straightforward with me. Jessica Smith, my dietitian, was always just a phone call away. My naturopathic medicine providers, Samantha Hoang and Jessica Moore, were very attentive, keeping track of whatever supplements I was taking and making changes as needed.

Being away from my family was hard. My wife traveled with me to Oklahoma at first, but as her pregnancy progressed, my father took her place. I put in long hours with my job at a communications company, so being away at the CTCA hospital in Tulsa was difficult. But I know that was a small price to pay.

I was also comforted by how everyone at CTCA treated my caregivers, both my wife and my father. Every time my father goes with me, he is amazed at the care and warmth. He sees how many people there know me by name. Dr. Pollock always included them in our appointments so that it wasn’t only me receiving the information and updates. He also wanted my family’s perspective on how things were going for me at home between treatments.

When I speak with other people facing a cancer diagnosis, I tell them you don’t have to listen to the statistics. If someone gives you a grim outlook, that doesn’t mean they’re right. I also always recommend calling CTCA because I know the kind of care I received there. Keep a fighting mentality, ready to move forward with hope. 

My wife and two little girls kept me motivated. That was a much better source from which to draw strength than the statistics, and I am thankful for every day we have together. 

I was born and raised in rural Connersville, Indiana. I am married, I have one young daughter, and I manage the liquor department at our local grocery store. I am also a wine steward.

In October 2015, after noticing blood in my stool, I had a colonoscopy and was diagnosed with colon cancer. My head was swimming when I heard the news. I had lots of questions. When my wife and I got back home from the doctor’s office, my whole family was there waiting for me. My wife had texted them and told them what was going on and that they needed to be at our house when we got back. I went to work the next day and told everybody there. I felt so supported and loved. 

About a week later, I went to see a surgeon. But before he performed the surgery, he wanted to do a scan to get a better picture of what was going on inside. A week later, we got the results, and the surgeon said the cancer appeared to have spread to the liver. He referred me to an oncologist that day, and I was later diagnosed with stage IV colon cancer. My wife and I were in disbelief. The first couple of days after receiving the news, we didn’t do much. We just took it all in. However, once we moved past the disbelief, we knew there was work to be done and starting pursuing additional options.

One day, my wife, Miranda, and her parents started researching cancer treatments. That is when they found Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). My wife was a little hesitant to call because she saw the commercials on television and thought that it sounded too good to be true. So my mother-in-law picked up the phone and called. The Oncology Information Specialist told her, “Let’s see what we can do. Do not give up hope.” After the initial conversation, my wife called me and told me that I was going to CTCA®. I trusted my wife and knew that she was doing everything she could to take care of me.

The next week, we drove to CTCA. My first appointment was December 28, 2015.

Walking into the hospital, we were greeted right away. We completed our check in, and then  received a guided tour of the hospital. We couldn’t believe how many doctors, clinicians and specialists were onsite and under one roof.

Before I arrived, my CTCA doctors obtained my medical records and health history and reviewed them. During my initial evaluation, I met various members of my care team, including my medical oncologist. I also underwent a number of diagnostic tests and procedures, because the doctors wanted to confirm my initial diagnosis. I was so impressed by how fast we completed them and got the test results. The tests confirmed I had stage IV colon cancer.

While delivering the news, my doctor sounded optimistic. My care team worked with me to create a personalized treatment plan. It felt so wonderful to have options and choices. The doctors and clinicians took the time to make sure I understood my treatment plan and let me ask any and all the questions I had.

My treatment began with a chemotherapy regimen, one round every two weeks for a total of 13 rounds. With the first set of scans, we could see my tumors were shrinking. When the chemotherapy ended, in November 2016, I had another set of scans performed. I held my breath waiting for the results. My medical oncologist came in and told me that scans showed no signs of residual cancer. I exhaled with excitement.

In mid-December, I underwent  surgery to remove the part of my colon affected by cancer.. The surgical oncologist also took multiple biopsies of the liver  to determine whether the cancer had spread. I was in the ICU following the surgery, and the staff was amazing. They were attentive to my needs and  answered all my questions.

I was so happy to be out of the hospital in time for Christmas. But the best gift of all was getting the surgical biopsy results back and learning that the samples taken were all non-cancerous fibrous tissue. Final pathology tests revealed no evidence of cancer within the colon or liver at that time.

Today, I continue to return to CTCA for follow-up appointments, and I also returned to work. I am getting back to my normal life.

My experience is why I am a big believer in never giving up. You have to try, no matter the stage or cancer type. I also believe that prayers work and that God will lead you. He definitely led us to CTCA.

Through it all, my wife has been my rock and caretaker. She’s pushed me and led me to CTCA. She’s continued working while I’ve been off and taking care of our family. She is an amazing woman, and I am grateful to have her in my life. My family and friends have been a great support as well. It makes it a lot easier when you’re at your low point to know that you have such a strong support group.

I’ve heard it said that “cancer changes your life,” and now I know it really does. I feel like every day is a blessing, and I truly live life to its fullest. I squeeze more time into each day. I have stopped to pay more attention to the small things in life that we often overlook on a daily basis, like breathing fresh air, enjoying the sun and playing with my daughter. Every day is a special gift from God, and I appreciate the blessings much more.

Only God knows when we will be born and when we will die and it matters how we live our dash. We must make every day count for we are not promised a tomorrow. Season this with faith, hope and love and the endurance of difficult situations or the mountain top experiences will be in our life’s resume. Be in the moment ~~ Be where you are ~~ Always keep dreaming and don’t stop living. That’s how I live my life.

More than 25 years ago, I survived cervical cancer. And in 1999, I went through three major lifestyle changes at once: I retired from an airline, where I worked in personnel and operations for 31 years; my husband and I moved to Goodyear, Arizona after living in St. Louis for 33 years; and 13 days after we moved to Arizona, my husband passed away unexpectedly. I was upside down for awhile. But with hope, faith, love, and support from wonderful family and friends, I rebounded. And that’s exactly what’s getting me through my journey with lung cancer.

In 2003, I had a chest X-ray and my pulmonologist discovered a small spot on my lung. The lab work showed bacteria from a soil contaminant had gotten in my lungs and he thought the best course of action was to monitor it with periodic X-rays. Four years passed and then one day, during routine follow-up, my doctor noticed some activity on my X-ray. Sure enough, it turned out to be lung cancer. Specifically, it was stage I non-small cell lung cancer.

On July 31, 2007, I had a mediastinoscopy to determine if two lymph nodes my doctor had also identified as suspicious were cancerous. Fortunately, they were not. That same day, I underwent a procedure to remove a nodule that was about the size of a pearl from my right lung. The surgeon also resected my right lower lobe. I am still forever thankful for the diligence of these two doctors.

At that time, I was appointed an oncologist at the hospital where I had the lung cancer surgery. He deemed that I did not need any additional treatment—no chemotherapy, radiation, vitamins, minerals, nothing like that. I just needed to go for six-month checkups following my surgery. After nine days, most spent in ICU, I returned home from the hospital and didn’t even think about asking what happens to suspicious lymph nodes. I guess I thought it was like a cold and would go away.

A year and three months later, October 2008, I had a chest X-ray, which showed that my lungs were OK, but again, there were two lymph nodes near my lungs that were suspicious of cancer. The office scheduled a needle biopsy for December 24th, at which time they informed me it was too risky and that a mediastinoscopy would be in order. During the holiday period, the hospital forgot to send the records to my surgeon, so when I called for my next directive, I was given an apology that the paperwork fell through the cracks. In mid-January 2009, I did have a mediastinoscopy and it confirmed the lymph nodes were cancerous. I was directed to see my oncologist for follow-up.

When the procedure, which had a cookie-cutter approach for treating my cancer, was explained (or mandated without much discussion and I certainly did not have an understanding of the drugs or procedures), I felt like I was a puppet on a string ~~ I was treated in a very clinical sense and was being given the regime everyone else had, no matter what form of cancer. I was told to see to the front desk and they would set me up for a chemo port. They would then set me up for radiation at one facility and chemotherapy at another.

I told my oncologist that this was a lot to grasp, and at the risk of our patient-doctor relationship, I did not want to offend him, but I felt I needed to check out Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). I don’t know how he really felt, but I could tell he didn’t see that it was necessary, but it was my prerogative.

Yes, I was in the moment, scared, shaking, but knew I must move forward as soon as possible and I must be proactive. In “the moment,” I did pray and I did have hope, and I was scared, but I was not about to be conquered by this dreaded disease or treated like a puppet on a string.

Fortunately, by that time, the doors had opened at the newly built CTCA at Western Regional Medical Center, which is close to my home. While it was being built, I had given thought to volunteering ~~ little did I know, I was instead, a potential patient. I called CTCA to get information and spoke with a young man who was an absolute jewel. He talked me through the process of becoming a patient at CTCA and explained the process. I was amazed at the total care and commitment of care that was being offered.

After many prayers and consulting friends, I received the confirmation I needed. CTCA was where I needed to be for treatment. Two friends who are going through cancer treatment said that had CTCA been available to them at the time of their diagnosis, they would have made a straight line to CTCA without question. Two other friends, both medical professionals, had NO hesitation about what they would do if they received a cancer diagnosis ~~ they, too, would head straight to CTCA.

I have worked with CTCA ever since. I have been under the care of Dr. Richard Shildt, and I don’t know what I would do without him. Dr. Shauna Birdsall is my naturopathic doctor. I also have a nutritionist, care manager and mind-body-spirit therapist on my team. My total team also includes the physical therapists, massage therapist and acupuncturist. I don’t know what I would ever do without them.

I underwent all of my tests right there at CTCA and they determined I had three cancerous lymph nodes. Because of where the lymph nodes were located (in such a critical area near my lungs and other organs), surgery was not an option. My treatment consisted of 35 sessions of radiation; five days a week for seven weeks. During that time, I received chemotherapy as well. For one cycle, I received Taxol® and carboplatin. I then went off of the chemo for about two months before I started a second cycle, which was of carboplatin and Gemzar®. I finished my chemotherapy treatment in July 2009.

When I was going through the radiation and chemotherapy, my team monitored me, checking on how I was feeling. I did lose my hair and quite a bit of weight. But the worst of it came after six weeks of treatment. I woke up on Easter morning and I couldn’t move. All of a sudden, I hit a brick wall. What had happened was the area where I was being radiated had affected my esophagus. I couldn’t swallow well and was struggling to intake fluids and food. I had to stop my treatment for a week. My team acted quickly to help me get the nourishment and hydration I needed to feel better and strong enough to finish my treatment. They worked with one of the hospital’s chefs to put together a healthy drink that was packed with calories and nutrients. I was able to sip it slowly over the course of several hours and regain some strength and energy. A week later, I was well enough again to go back and complete my radiation treatment.

Tiredness was a major side effect of my cancer treatment. My team always offered suggestions on how to cope with the exhaustion, such as walking for even 10 minutes a day and eating fruits and vegetables. They offered ideas from a nutrition standpoint to help me maintain my energy. During my first appointment with my naturopathic doctor, I went armed with all of the vitamins and minerals I was taking at the time (two big bags), thinking I needed all these extra nutrients. Dr. Birdsall looked at all of them, analyzed my profile and put me on a regimen of natural therapies designed for me. What amazed me was I didn’t have to take so many of the ones I was taking. What she recommended sustained me throughout my treatment. In addition, I really had to tie in my emotions with what I was going through physically. That connectivity is so important. That’s why the mind-body team is great about offering help and resources, such as music you can listen to and suggested readings.

My team walked me through every stage of my treatment. Everyone held my hand. Whatever I needed, they were by my side during this journey, and they still are. Once every three months, I return to CTCA for follow-up. I have CT scans and lab work done right there. They get all of the results back within a day. All of my test results are in a shared computer system. That way, everyone on my team is on the same page. It helps so that I don’t have to repeat myself as I see different team members. My doctor sees it, naturopathic clincian, and so on. And whoever sees me, notes in my record whatever they recommended to me. They also review how I’m eating, and monitor my weight and vitamin D level. I monitor my weight on my own too. I keep a notebook on all of my vital signs because it helps me have a better understanding of what’s going on in my body.

During my journey, I’ve had other issues occur, but my team was right there to help me.

At CTCA, they are all about living. It’s not dying with cancer, it’s living with cancer, or getting rid of it. My team encourages me to take trips and keep active, so long as my counts are up and I am feeling good. They counsel me on everything I ask about. It’s as if I have another family. My team knows me on a personal level. That is such an anchor. I really feel like when I walk in, I’ve got my family—my team—and they have my best interests in mind. What’s great too is the responsiveness of my team. For instance, I can email my care manager and let her know what’s going on, how I’m feeling and ask what she would recommend me to do. Having the ability to send an email directly to care providers is terrific.

CTCA treats the whole body as we should all take care of ourselves. They understand it’s just as important to care for your emotional and spiritual needs as it is to fight the disease. They help you seek things that are going to help you endure the journey.

Something else that’s different about CTCA is the environment, like in the Infusion Center, where the sun shines through the windows and you don’t feel boxed in a room ~~ you see out into the sun. It’s about bringing life into the center. It’s always such a clean environment. In comparison to a typical doctor’s office or hospital, where I’d go to three different rooms for three different reasons, at CTCA I can stay in one patient room for appointments with my team. Everyone comes to me; sometimes patients are so weary and moving from room to room itself can be exhausting. My team does the work for me and saves my energy. That amazes me.

Salon del Sol is a salon in the hospital where patients and caregivers can go for a haircut, manicure, pedicure, makeup consulting, wigs, head covers, swimsuits, and undergarments for breast cancer patients. That team is awesome! They just make you feel good and like a whole person when one feels a bit weary; they are all compassionate and care for your well-being. When I lost my hair, I went to them, they shaved my head, and we laughed and made a fun time of that part of my journey. We had fun trying on wigs. They’re right in-tune with everything else at CTCA and such an integral part of total wellness. I consider them part of my team, just as I do the nurses in the Infusion Center who gave me my chemotherapy. They took such good care of me and were wonderful!

The scheduling team is great too! For example, if I am delayed in any way for my next appointment and I call to let them know, they’ll adjust my schedule and communicate the changes to the care providers who are scheduled to provide me with services or treatments.

CTCA also has such delicious, healthy food. Almost everything is organic. Yet, at the same time, they understand that you may not always feel like eating what’s on the cafeteria menu. So, they always have those foods that are soothing available, comfort foods like mash potatoes and grilled cheese. And if you need something else, they will try to come up with it for you.

The entire CTCA stakeholder team has a “hello,” with a smile and most often, I am called by name when meeting in the hall, checking in for an appointment, and being received in the reception area of each department. I would not like to neglect any one person; each stakeholder counts. It’s been a privilege and honor to be with the CTCA team.

All of the things I’ve been able to do during and since I completed treatment are amazing. I’ve sailed several times, traveled to Seattle and taken trips to see family members across the country. I am so blessed because I have such a great family and friends. And, my prayer life is strong. I have another sail trip planned for three weeks. I’m still active in my church and music life, as well as my social life. Yes, I’ve altered a few things in my life, and some things have changed in my life because of the therapy my body has been exposed to. But that’s all OK ~ I don’t need to multi-task ~ I do need to stay more focused ~ a lot of things I thought were important aren’t really that important as I’ve had to re-evaluate a lot of things in my life. But I did it because I can! Each day is a blessing!

One of the ways I give back is by being a CTCA Cancer Fighter and member of the CTCA Cancer Fighters® Care Net. It allows me to help others who are going through what I went through. I can answer some of their questions and offer comfort and support.

Hope means everything. My mother passed away from breast cancer that metastasized to her bones. We thought then that mother would like to know how much time she had left. She was a very matter of fact woman. She said something very important, and I have lived with these words for a long time: “Whatever you do, don’t take away my hope because without hope I have nothing.” You can apply that statement to so many scenarios. And with cancer, it’s all about hope and living.

It’s important to know that at CTCA, it’s not a false hope. It’s a vision of hope. It’s “we’re going to work on this.” And along with having hope, it’s important to trust in the system that CTCA has because it works. They do what they can to work with each individual to make his or her life a quality life.

My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer three times. After she was first treated, the cancer returned and spread -- twice. She had cancerous tumors in both breasts. Because of her history, I was concerned about developing the same disease. So I was diligent about having annual routine mammograms starting when I was 40 years old.

In September of 2012, I was under a lot of stress and had felt lumps in my breasts. I felt certain that sooner or later, I would develop breast cancer. My doctor encouraged me to wait to see if I actually developed cancer.

In the early spring of 2013, my husband told me that he thought I had a lump in my breast. I told him that I had been feeling lumps for a while, but he said it felt larger. “I think you need a mammogram,” he told me. I was due for my annual mammogram, and made the appointment right away.

The results of that test came by mail. No change had been observed, but the report also stated that I had dense breast tissue, which, as I understand it, can sometimes make cancer difficult to see.

A week later, my right breast started bleeding. After a sleepless night I called my doctor. She saw me that day and referred me to a breast surgeon near my home outside Baltimore, Maryland. The surgeon did an ultrasound and saw two areas in my breast that looked suspicious for cancer.

My first response upon hearing this from her was that I wanted to have a surgery. But like my previous physician, the surgeon suggested I wait. She wanted to do a biopsy to confirm that the masses were malignant. She said there was time, that the tumors were not going to grow that fast. So a few days later, I had a biopsy.A week later, she confirmed it was breast cancer.

The surgeon wanted me to have an MRI before going ahead with any surgical procedure. An MRI would reveal any other areas of concern. Sure enough, the imaging test confirmed the presence of a mass in the lymph node. Upon seeing the results of the MRI, she wanted me to have another biopsy to determine whether the mass in the lymph node was cancerous. A week later she had the results from the biopsy, which confirmed that the mass was malignant. At this time, she agreed that I should have a bilateral mastectomy.

About four weeks after I learned that I had cancer, I underwent surgery.

Before I had the surgery, a friend of mine told me about a friend of hers who had been treated for breast cancer at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in Suburban Chicago. The friend had said wonderful things about the care she’d received, and my friend was urging me to talk to her.

I didn’t call right away. Traveling to the Chicago area for treatment seemed out of reach for me. I have three children, one of whom has cerebral palsy and needs constant care, and I didn’t see how I could logistically travel for treatment. So what was the point in calling? Plus, I had no prior experience with cancer treatment. Even though there were waiting periods between tests and procedures, I thought that perhaps this was just how things went with cancer treatment. But I was looking at all of these obstacles from a human perspective, not allowing my faith to guide me.

I finally got in touch with my friend’s friend, and then called CTCA®. Five days later, I went to the CTCA facility in Chicago for an initial consultation.

My first visit to CTCA was very reassuring and they didn’t want me to wait any longer for treatment.

Now it was me who wanted to delay. I knew that I wanted to be treated at CTCA almost immediately, but I wanted to have a few days back at home before starting chemotherapy. I was concerned that if I lost my hair, my daughter would be alarmed. A friend of mine had used something called cold caps to prevent hair loss from chemotherapy, and I wanted time to inquire about this for myself. So I went home and returned a week later to begin treatment.

I had chemotherapy and adjunct therapy trastuzumab once every three weeks for six rounds. For each treatment, I traveled to Chicago, staying there for one or two nights, and then returned home. I continued traveling to CTCA every three weeks for 12 additional rounds of adjunct therapy with maintenance trastuzumab. I did end up using the cold caps, and they worked for me—I did not lose my hair. My Care Team also recommended radiation therapy. Following chemotherapy and radiation, I chose to undergo reconstructive surgery in October 2014.

The quality of the care I received at CTCA was excellent. When I was at CTCA, my needs were taken care of. My side effects were addressed both medically and through nutritional and naturopathic support. When I was at home, I also felt that CTCA was immediately within reach. When I developed an infection, my CTCA doctor was available right away by phone to advise me.

The hardest part of going through cancer was getting the diagnosis, and now that was long behind me. The care I received at CTCA from the doctors, nurses and staff was above and beyond what I had thought was accessible for me, but somehow I got to the right place. I even met a lifelong friend who was on the same three-week chemo schedule, so our doctor, scheduler, and infusion nurses made sure we could meet in the infusion center for our “chemo parties.”

I also know that I would never have made it through this time without the support of my family. My mother, still fighting her own breast cancer, was able to take care of my children when I could not, and my husband took care of me, both at home and during treatment trips to Chicago. I am so grateful for their love and support. I am also grateful for all of the wonderful moments I’ve had traveling to and from Chicago, and while staying at CTCA. I am thankful that it has been possible for me to share my experience at CTCA with so many people by just being in situations where my cancer journey might help others. I am honored to still be able to give back to other cancer patients by being part of the Cancer Fighters® Care Net program.

Today I am doing well. I return to CTCA every six months as maintenance. My energy has returned, and I have resumed my normal activities of life. I’m back at work and able to take care of my children and enjoy our time together. We went on a family vacation to the Bahamas, just the five of us for the first time ever. And I celebrated my 50th birthday.

More importantly, though, I am closer to living the way I want to live now. Work is less of a focus for me, and my beliefs are at the forefront of my mind. I have become very active in my church, and have a close group of friends with whom I share my faith. Before I had cancer, I was going through the motions of life too busy to stop and notice what was going on around me, not paying enough attention to my children. But going through this time made me stop and slow down and reprioritize.

As a result, it feels like everything is falling into place. I traveled on a mission trip with my son in 2015, and I have been able to start physical therapy with my daughter for her cerebral palsy. She is doing well. My beliefs kept me strong during cancer treatment and they will keep me strong for the road ahead.

In 2012, I went in for a mammogram at my health care provider’s breast cancer center. Something small but possibly abnormal showed up on the mammogram so I was referred to a breast specialist.  After examining me, the doctor wanted to do a biopsy. She also said that while she doing the biopsy, she might as well remove what she sees. Not fully understanding what a biopsy was, nor asking the pertinent questions for clarity, I felt that the doctor was very ‘eager’ to perform surgery and remove something, so I dragged my feet. I wasn’t ready to take that step and needed to investigate what was being suggested.

I was concerned about what the mammogram showed, but not to the point of acting on it. Previous doctors had told me that I had fibrocystic breasts, which can affect their appearance in a mammogram. That factor had sometimes caused concern during previous mammograms, prolonging the days’ tests and creating significant stress, only to end up with the doctors releasing me with a clear mammogram report. So when the mammogram showed something abnormal this time, I figured it was because of the composition of my breasts and just another fire drill. But during the next six months, that small ‘possible abnormality’ grew into a lump I could clearly feel.

I discussed the lump with my chiropractor, and she offered to do digital infrared thermal imaging of my breasts. This procedure is different from a mammogram and not at all invasive. The initial image obtained a baseline reading, and three months later another scan was taken for comparison. Changes had occurred since the previous image in my left breast at the cellular level.

My chiropractor recommended that I see a gynecologist for a formal breast exam. The gynecologist immediately sent me for a biopsy, which led to an ultrasound. A few days later, my gynecologist diagnosed me with carcinoma in my left breast. She recommended a breast cancer surgeon, the same one our research directed us to. I began consulting with the initial doctor only to realize I was uncomfortable with the process, and the experience up to that point. I began to question if this was where I wanted me to be treated. Was this the approach I wanted to take?

After the initial doctors’ consults (the surgeon, radiologist and oncologist), a friend familiar with my concerns told me about a couple she knew who’d had a phenomenal experience at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) just down the road in Newnan, GA. The husband had been treated there for colorectal cancer. My friend suggested that I talk to them.

I met the wife, and remember sitting in my car at a gas station, listening to her tell me about their awesome experience. I loved what she had to say. Extremely impressed with what I’d heard, I told her I would be calling CTCA® in the morning, but wanted to sleep on it. “You don’t have to wait until the morning,” I remember her saying, “they’re open 24/7.” I went to bed and woke up knowing CTCA was where I wanted to be treated.  I talked with my family and we all agreed to pursue treatment at CTCA. 

At CTCA, I was treated with eight rounds of chemotherapy, delivered every other week, followed by a lumpectomy and then six weeks of daily radiation. The side effects were minimal. I had some nausea and a few other minor issues. My naturopathic oncology provider gave me a comprehensive regimen to address and prevent the discomfort from these reactions. My Care Team prepared me for what I might experience without overloading me with concerns.

I did experience “chemo brain,” as many people call it. It was sometimes a struggle for me to stay organized. I worked during the first month of treatment, but decided to take some time off because it was difficult functioning and staying focused, which was highly stressful.

Overall the treatment at CTCA was simple, easy and convenient. Everything is under one roof, so there’s no need to drive from clinic to clinic and maneuver multiple buildings on a large campus for different appointments. The doctors come to your consultation (exam) room. The wait time is always minimal. Tests results are quickly turned around. All of my needs were taken care of. I could just relax and focus on healing. My sister, one of my caregivers, despite the reason for the visits, always looked forward to going to CTCA. It put me at ease to know my caregivers were well taken care of.

Tests taken after the treatments showed no signs of cancer. After seven months of medical leave, I returned to work as a corporate trainer, doing what I love, which is helping people develop, improving their skills both on the job and in their personal lives. I am still rebuilding my strength but that is getting better with time. My friends and family celebrated my successful treatment with a surprise party at my home. The pergola I’d had built at my home so I’d have a special place to continue healing was the perfect celebration site.

My experience with cancer and treatment at CTCA taught me that this disease is not a death sentence. Extraordinary care exists.  Everyone is different and everyone’s treatment experience is different. Your mindset and attitude are important to your treatment experience during and after cancer treatment. My faith kept me strong, supported by the healing atmosphere at CTCA. 

My mother died of cancer when she was just 48 years old, so I have always been diligent about having annual physicals and routine mammograms (even though she did not have breast cancer). I have always taken good care of myself. I eat healthily, walk and hike in the mountains.

But two weeks after my annual physical in 2012, I was doing a breast self-examination and noticed that something didn’t feel right. I called my doctor immediately, and she told me to come in the next day. A mammogram did not reveal any abnormalities. The next day, I had an ultrasound, which showed suspicious areas. That led to a biopsy. Two days after the tissue samples were taken, my doctor called. Initially, she wanted me to come to her office, but I told her I wanted the results right then on the phone. Knowing I had some medical knowledge from my work history, she agreed. She told me that I had infiltrating lobular carcinoma breast cancer.

The diagnosis was somewhat shocking, but because of my mother’s history, I was not completely surprised. I knew that I needed to stop for a moment and think, and take some time to digest the news. I wasn’t scared, but I was concerned. How was I going to get through this?

It didn’t take too much time to realize that the first step toward eradicating the cancer was a mastectomy. Even though I didn’t know the extent of the cancer yet, I knew that I would have a mastectomy. My husband and I had a trip to Mexico planned that started two days after I was diagnosed, and my doctor assured me that I could wait until we returned to start treatment because the cancer was a slow-growing type.

After our trip, I had a mastectomy and then went to see a local oncologist for a consultation. Afterwards, it was my husband who raised the idea of seeking a second opinion. I agreed immediately. Soon after we arrived home that day, we happened to see a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call.

The CTCA® representative I spoke with gave me all the information I was missing, and he took his time on the phone. He answered every question. He informed me about scheduling a consultation and what I needed to do next. I felt so much more at ease just from that first call, and knew that I had found the place where I wanted to be treated.

During my mastectomy, the surgeon found that the tumor was seven centimeters, larger than was previously thought. A lymph node biopsy had revealed that two were microscopically positive for cancer. Seeing those results, the surgeon removed 21 lymph nodes, a precautionary measure that would soon have some serious consequences.

At CTCA, I had six rounds of chemotherapy. I also worked with a naturopathic oncology provider and a nutritionist to identify a diet that would be beneficial to keep me strong during this time, as well as supplements and vitamins that might help, too.

But soon after completing this treatment, my arm and hand started to swell. After having so many lymph nodes removed, the lymph fluid had nowhere to drain, leading to lymphedema, a common side effect of this procedure. A physical therapist at CTCA recommended that I wear a specialized glove.

In the meantime, my CTCA oncologist recommended that I find a local radiation oncologist near our home in Indiana because I would need about 37 radiation treatments. I found a local radiation oncologist and a local physical therapist, but the lymphedema worsened.

After the glove, I tried wraps designed for lymphedema treatment. When that didn’t work, I tried a compression sleeve. A pump helped keep the swelling down a bit, but I was still extremely uncomfortable. The lymphedema was also disheartening. Here I was, having been through a mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiation; I was done with cancer treatment, and yet, this pain would not go away. It was like a constant reminder of cancer, and it also made daily life very difficult. I was self-conscious about my swollen arm and hand. I could not fold laundry or make the bed. I could not type, which I need to be able to do at my managerial job with the postal service. It was embarrassing and exhausting.

Shortly before a consultation with my surgeon for breast reconstruction, I started wondering what other treatments might be out there for lymphedema. I saw that some people were trying a new procedure called lymph node transfer. At that next appointment, I asked my reconstructive surgeon whether someone could do it at CTCA, and he told me someone was joining that fall who performed these procedures. That September, I underwent the lymph node transfer surgery.

The procedure is exactly what the name implied: Lymph nodes are transferred from one place to another. For the breast reconstruction surgery, my surgeon performed abdominal free-tissue transfer, in which tissue from my lower abdomen was used to reconstruct my left breast. During that procedure, another surgeon also moved adjacent lymph nodes from my lower abdomen and upper groin to my left underarm. 

Three days after the surgery, I saw veins in my hand that I had not seen in a year and a half. The swelling diminished week by week. Soon, my ability to grip and fold and do other routine actions with my hands, and movements we all take for granted returned. The pain is virtually nonexistent—occasionally I feel a slight twinge, but that is nothing compared with how I had been feeling. Life is back to normal. Four weeks after the surgery, I was able to return to work.

Discovering that I had options for cancer treatment was very empowering for me. Realizing that I can get a second opinion, as many opinions as I want, really, was vital to my recovery. I found a place that gave me the knowledge that I needed. Later, when it came to addressing the lymphedema, CTCA was right there at the cutting edge, offering the right treatment.

I was also touched by how the providers there treated my husband. He was my caregiver, and it meant so much that he was included in everything. My Care Team was concerned about his welfare, too. That’s integrative care for real.

Today, I can play games with my twin grandchildren. I can play bass and keyboards again in our basement sound studio, and I can high-five my co-workers. Not long ago, all of these movements were impossibly painful. Sometimes, I still wear the compression sleeve, but this will reduce over time.

I’m grateful for the care I received at CTCA and for the support I had from my family and friends during my treatment. That support really strengthened me, and has left me wanting to help others. Many people experience lymphedema as a side effect of cancer treatment, and I want to tell as many people as I can that there is a solution. We don’t have to live in pain. I want to see others glowing with happiness, as I am after the care I received.

Life had been filled with ups and downs by the time I moved to Texas in 2013. I had been married, divorced, then remarried to the same man, and then separated again; an experience that prompted me to move from San Francisco, California, to Texas, where my family was. It was time for a new beginning.  

But the past was not quite done with me yet. Years earlier, in 2007, I had my first brush with breast cancer. I had just returned from Paris, France, where I attended graduate school for international business. That time abroad had been my dream ever since my mother and I had traveled there together years earlier. When I finished my studies, I returned to the United States, taking a job in the Bay Area. But a few months after arriving there, I developed a rash on my breast. When I put cream on it, I noticed a lump. I was diagnosed with stage IIIA breast cancer. A lymph node dissection found cancer cells in 14 out of 24 lymph nodes. I received excellent care in California and was cancer-free for many years. 

Fast forward to 2013: I had been having back pain for some time, but the trouble escalated a few months after I arrived in Texas, with painful muscle spasms occurring too frequently. I saw an orthopedist, but there was no clear diagnosis at the time. Still, I knew the problem was serious and needed attention, and I was determined to listen to that inner voice. 

One day I became dehydrated, short of breath and my blood pressure felt low, so I went to the local emergency room. A CT scan showed that my lungs were clear, but there was a lesion on my vertebrae. The doctor there told me that I needed to see an oncologist right away. I was so glad that I listened to my instinct and took my symptoms seriously.

I was soon diagnosed with breast cancer for the second time. This time the disease had metastasized to the spine.  

After an initial appointment at a cancer center near my home, I decided to pursue a consultation with Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I had seen commercials for CTCA® and my family encouraged me to call. We were all intrigued by the integrative approach, in which diet and other types of support are included alongside traditional medical care. But the closest CTCA location was not near me, so I was not sure if going there would even be an option. 

I made the call and was immediately set at ease. The person I spoke with understood my condition, knew the complications I might experience from the disease and from the treatment, and answered all of my initial questions about the logistics of being treated at CTCA. “If the treatment at CTCA is anything like this phone call, this place is great,” I remember thinking at the time.   

That first visit was even more impressive than that first call. My parents came with me but my mother, who is epileptic and had a sinus infection at the time, was having seizures and needed to go to a hospital. CTCA sent a car so that my father could easily travel back and forth between my appointments and the hospital where my mother was being cared for. After being treated so well, my father told me that he thought CTCA was where I needed to be, and I agreed with him. 

My treatment at CTCA began on that first visit. My care team at CTCA did not recommend an oophorectomy (removal of the ovaries) or chemotherapy, but I did have hormone therapy. My oncologist proceeded with caution and care. She wanted to avoid the uncomfortable side effects of radiation unless it was absolutely necessary, but emphasized that ultimately the decision was mine to make.  

The most difficult side effect of the treatment was hot flashes, which my care team helped to manage. My naturopathic oncology provider recommended vitamins and supplements, and I greatly appreciated that input because I prefer to include all approaches—diet, vitamins, and such—in my care.  

One day I was in the cafeteria with my parents and a man began playing the ukulele and singing. The song was about the hospital in Zion, and many people around us began singing. In that moment, all I could think was what a good place I was in.  

All of my visits to CTCA have reinforced those first impressions. When I have blood drawn first thing in the morning, the results are available within an hour. The stress of waiting is virtually eliminated from the experience. When I have a question, it is answered as quickly as possible. 

Today I'm happy to say that I have no evidence of disease. I couldn't be happier with the care I'm receiving. I have hormone therapy injections to diminish the negative effects of excess estrogen production and another injection for my bones. Sometimes friends will ask me, “Can’t you get treated closer to home now?” But the truth is, I don’t want to. I treasure my visits to CTCA, my home away from home. Each time I visit, I help others learn how to “write through cancer,” providing them an outlet for their emotions while they go through treatment.

My energy has returned, I am back to work and back to the routines of daily life. But life is not the same as it was before my diagnosis and treatment, as I now have this story of survivorship to tell. After my treatment was completed, I published my memoir and continued working with community outreach programs to raise awareness about breast cancer among African American women.

I had so much fear when I was first diagnosed, and then again the second time I was diagnosed. I was told again and again that people with this diagnosis can live for many years, and I decided that I did not want to live each day in fear. We can’t fight properly when we’re afraid. Now I want to encourage others coping with this or another cancer diagnosis to let go of that fear and let faith take its place.     

My name is Dr. Karyn Marshall and I’m a chiropractor. Sports, fitness, exercise and nutrition have long been driving forces in my life. In fact, I used to be the strongest woman in the world. I was world champion and world-record holder in the sport of weightlifting. Through the course of my career, I set over 60 world and American records, and I’ve been in The Guinness Book of World Records.

Because of my lifestyle, it came as a complete shock when I learned I had cancer. It started on August 22, 2011 when I found a lump in my left breast. The next day, I went for a mammogram and pretty much knew that something was suspicious. Soon after that, I was diagnosed with stage IIA triple negative breast cancer.

To hear that I had breast cancer meant that I needed to give it my full focus, my full attention. The world stopped. I needed to do everything I could to understand what I had. I needed to find the right place for me to go to for treatment and I needed to determine what else I could to do to help my body fight the disease.

I went to Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) in Philadelphia for what was my second opinion. I had heard about CTCA and I had seen their commercials on TV. But more importantly for me was, as a chiropractor, we had our state convention and one of the vendors was CTCA. Dr. Sklar, a chiropractor who works for CTCA, was there and I remembered stopping and talking with him. I was very interested in the fact that CTCA offered chiropractic care. I kept a mental note that if I ever had patients that needed cancer treatment, I would recommend that they look into CTCA because it sounded like a really great place. Lo and behold, it was me that needed to look into CTCA for treatment.

Having cancer, I wanted to have the right treatment. Before I went to CTCA for a consultation and evaluation, I was given the names of the doctors I would be seeing. I researched them, saw their backgrounds, what they published, how long they’d been in practice, what other hospitals they’d worked at and where they went to school. I was impressed, and knowing they were working with integrative oncology clinicians in addition to the medical team impressed me even more. The fact that they were all working together for the benefit of patients, in my mind, is the way all healthcare should be.

During my three-day evaluation at CTCA, I met with my doctors and integrative oncology clinicians. They gave me what they felt were the best options for me: specialized, individual care that was going to address my specific cancer. I was going to receive aggressive treatment to fight the cancer and integrative oncology services to help me have a good quality of life during treatment.

Once I understood what CTCA was all about, I knew it was the right fit for me. As a chiropractor, it was really important to include chiropractic and holistic healthcare with my traditional cancer treatment. The fact CTCA did that and also had top-notch medical teams made it the right place for me.

I had a partial mastectomy surgery at CTCA within about two weeks of my initial visit. At the time of the surgery, I also received intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT). After I healed from the surgery and IORT, I received additional radiation treatment, TomoTherapy®. I also received chemotherapy.

All of my doctors did what they thought was in my best interest to attack my cancer. And that's what I wanted them to do. The integrative oncology services helped keep me as strong and healthy as possible, and helped me have peace of mind.

I loved all my doctors. Dr. Standiford is special and great. He’s a skilled surgeon and a wonderful human being. And my radiation oncologist is a wonderful man.

I felt that I was well cared for. My doctors and entire care team got to know me. They cared about me and involved me in the decision-making process. My doctors answered my questions and I felt as if they gave me the time I needed and deserved.

My doctors got to know what I did before, what my goals were and how important it was for me to get back to working out and participating in CrossFit. I wanted to make sure I could workout throughout my treatment, but I knew I wasn't going to be able to do everything I wanted to do. My major goal was to try out for the CrossFit Games. The tryouts were coming up about four or five weeks after my last chemotherapy treatment. Sixty-eight thousand people worldwide were trying out for the games, and I wanted to be one of them.

Throughout my treatment, I worked out as much as I could. I was also able to go into the office to do paperwork and see some patients. I wanted to feel as normal as possible. Going to the office, working out and walking my dogs were all goals. My doctors were supportive and encouraging, as were my integrative oncology clinicians. They all helped me reach my goals.

The integrative oncology services CTCA offered were one of the major reasons that I chose CTCA. I practiced mind-body therapies I learned, including mediation and deep breathing. The therapies helped put me in a state of mind that was accepting and not panicking when I was going through treatment. I also received acupuncture treatment, which helped me with nausea and other treatment side effects. For chiropractic care, I continued to get adjusted by my partner at work, Dr. Cronk, but I also went to Dr. Sklar for a consultation and care. That helped me keep my nervous system and body flowing and functioning, and feeling good. 

At CTCA, I received massage therapy, Reiki therapy and Qigong too. I also had a dietitian, who taught me about a good diet for during treatment and the rest of my life. And, I had a naturopathic oncology provider who was absolutely vital in terms of helping me know which natural therapies and supplements I could take during different phases of my treatment. She also knew which supplements I should avoid, as they could be harmful and have interactions with my treatments. The natural therapies and supplements she recommended helped reduce side effects and keep my body as strong as possible.

I’m thankful to CTCA for helping me through what was a really difficult time. They guided me and supported me, and did everything they could to address my cancer from every possible direction.

It’s been an amazing journey. It's helped me have patience, better peace of mind and a different perspective on life. I appreciate things. Not that I didn't appreciate them before, but I feel that I'm looking at things differently now, savoring the moment and trying to learn from it.

I feel like I’m getting stronger every day. I’m getting my life back. I can’t say I’m 100 percent, but I’m getting there and every day I’m feeling better.

My cancer journey with Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) began almost 13 years ago. I initially went to CTCA® because I liked the idea of nutritional counseling as part of my treatment for advanced lung cancer. I have remained with CTCA for all my treatment and checkups because I have total confidence in the quality of care I receive there and because they always offer me hope.

In March 1999, at the age of 51, I was diagnosed with inoperable non-small cell lung cancer, stage IIIB adenocarcinoma, in my left lung. I was shocked and terrified. I had smoked for many years but had quit in ‘91. I couldn’t believe I had lung cancer eight years later. I immediately began to research my options and look into facilities for treatment. I spoke with a friend who told me about CTCA, a cancer hospital where oncologists worked together with naturopaths and other treatment providers. My husband Holt Truex, who is a pediatrician, went online to learn more about CTCA. He also called and spoke with Sharon, an Oncology Information Specialist at the CTCA hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma. CTCA was able to verify that my insurance was approved and that I could be treated there. They also handled arrangements for plane tickets and doctors’ appointments for my first trip to CTCA.

When I arrived at the hospital in Tulsa, I had tests done. Thank goodness they showed the cancer had not spread anywhere else. I started treatment immediately—external beam radiation twice a day and low-dose chemo once a week to enhance the radiation. My joints hurt from the cancer, and I was so fatigued from the radiation treatment that I pretty much wanted to sleep all the time. But it was OK. I had no responsibilities other than to get well. Meals were provided and my dear husband did everything else, including laundry. All I absolutely had to do was go to meals, radiation treatments, chemo, and doctors’ appointments. Optional activities I worked in between naps included going to classes on nutrition, naturopathy, stress management and humor therapy. I kept my friends and family posted via email, and at Holt's urging, kept taking my daily walks. Once I got moving, my joints felt better, and I believe staying active contributed to my recovery. Keeping up with my vitamins also helped. It was a full schedule, but all focused on my recovery. I can’t imagine what life would have been like if I had stayed at home, trying to deal with meals, laundry and dogs, all in addition to traveling 60 miles round trip every day to the treatment center nearest to my home in Española, New Mexico. Being at CTCA was much better.

We were in Tulsa for seven weeks for tests and treatment. After that, we went back for chemo one week a month for five months. By my last round of chemo in October ‘99, my CEA tumor marker was in the normal range (1.5, down from 66 in March) and my tumor had shrunk down to 2.5 cm. Six months later, my tumor was gone! It had shrunk away to a scar. My life was returning to normal.

My second cancer diagnosis came in September 2009, more than a decade later. At an annual checkup, doctors discovered I had a second primary lung cancer. It was a stage IA adenocarcinoma in the other lung. The tumor was small, 1.6 cm, but because of its location on the border between two lobes of my right lung, it was still inoperable.

With surgery not an option, I was offered radiation therapy. And because of my previous history with cancer, my doctors at CTCA felt I should have chemotherapy again as well. So that fall I went through seven weeks of TomoTherapy®, a targeted form of radiation that had come along since my previous lung cancer, and which did not cause me fatigue. I also had concurrent low-dose Taxol® and carboplatin, the same chemo drugs I received in ’99, to enhance the effects of the radiation. Overall I felt pretty good as I received treatment this time, except for a couple of times when my white blood cell count went too low and I had to wait for Neupogen® shots to boost it back up before I could continue treatment.

I stayed onsite in the hospital’s outpatient housing for a total of 10 weeks. My husband stayed with me much of the time. When he needed to be home for work, a series of girlfriends came to stay with me for a few days at a time. We had fun during their visits, working my treatments and doctors’ appointments in between trips to the mall and walks around the hospital grounds.

About a month after I completed radiation, I went back to Tulsa to begin my full-dose chemo treatments. That was a different story. I had four cycles of Taxol/cisplatin, once every three weeks, followed by one cycle of Alimta® for maintenance. The treatments wiped me out. I would see my doctors one day, have chemo for six hours the next day, and fly home the day after that. The next day I would wake up at home feeling the full effects of the chemo—exhaustion, headache, some nausea (but no vomiting). This was by far the hardest part of both my fights against lung cancer. But by the second day at home, I would feel a little better, and I would just be tired and rest for about another week. After that I felt pretty much back to normal—able to shop, cook, clean and walk dogs—until I went back a couple of weeks later to repeat the cycle.

As expected, I lost my hair (again!) about two weeks after I started full-dose chemo. I talked to a practitioner in the onsite Lily Bella Spa at CTCA when I went back for my next chemo treatment about a week later, and she showed me the perfect wig. It looked a lot like my hair color (gray) and style, only much nicer. So I got it. The practitioner trimmed it a little to suit my face. Just putting it on really did make me feel better.

I developed peripheral neuropathy in my feet from my second bout with cancer treatment. It still bothers me a bit, but it’s manageable. The naturopathic medicine team recommended a number of supplements to prevent and reduce the neuropathy, and I’m currently taking one called N-acetyl cysteine, which helps a lot. I also worked with the hospital’s physical therapy team, and I had acupuncture treatments at the hospital too.

The most difficult side effect of cancer treatment my second time around was emotional. I was terrified of being switched from the familiar carboplatin, which I had become allergic to, to the unfamiliar cisplatin, which is supposed to have much harsher side effects. My medical oncologist helped me address some of my fears by starting the cisplatin at a lower dose and increasing it a little with each subsequent cycle. He also gave me six days of the anti-nausea medicine Emend® instead of the usual three. Both Emend and the gradually increased dose of cisplatin seem to help lessen the side effects. I was also helped tremendously by a psychologist in the Mind-Body Medicine Department at the hospital, who has been with me since ‘99. The only time I cried with either lung cancer was on my way to the Infusion Center for the first round of cisplatin. That was the emotional low of my journey, and my psychologist helped me deal with it using, in part, visualization based on Psalm 91.

I finished treatment in March of 2010 and went on a three-month checkup schedule. Everything has been stable since then, thank goodness, and in November of 2011, I graduated to six-month checkups.

Every return visit to CTCA feels like a big reunion with long-lost friends. Most of the staff and most of my doctors have been with me since ‘99, including Dr. Nader, an interventional pulmonologist, and his nurse Sue, who managed the diagnosis phase of my second lung cancer. They are fantastic, as are my medical oncologist and my radiation oncologist, Dr. Flynn. I am blessed to have such a skilled, caring and supportive team.

Of course my husband, Holt, was and is my main support. He has been by my side at almost every doctor’s appointment, scan and treatment. His care, love and concern mean everything to me. And the doctors and staff at CTCA also treat him as a very important member of my team. He goes with me everywhere, except when radiation is involved.

I am blessed to have had a complete recovery from both of my lung cancers, due in part, I believe, to the reasonably healthy lifestyle I try to follow. Encouraged by my team at CTCA, I eat a mostly plant-based, mostly organic diet with an emphasis on vegetables. I typically make veggie smoothies twice a day. And I try to stay active, walking dogs, going on hikes with Holt and exercising regularly.

My life returned to normal, only better and fuller, both times after cancer treatment. I started doing watercolor painting, taking singing lessons and getting involved in my church as a direct result of my first lung cancer and my counseling with my psychologist. I continue to do those things, even though I was diagnosed with a paralyzed vocal cord in 2009, which makes it difficult for me to sing. But I’m still a member of the Spanish choir in my church, only now I play percussion instruments.

A few of the milestones I’ve reached in recent years include traveling to Costa Rica in 2009 before my second cancer diagnosis and to Italy in 2006 with girlfriends. These girlfriends visited me during my treatment, and celebrating our enduring friendships since junior high school and all of our 60th birthdays together was very special.

I’ve spoken with several hundred cancer patients over the years through my volunteer activities with various support groups and initiatives, including the Bloch Cancer Hotline, the Lung Cancer Alliance and the CTCA Patient-to-Patient Network. It’s been very rewarding. I also volunteer a few days a month with the American Cancer Society at the local cancer treatment facility in Gallup. I am able to offer cost-free wigs, breast prostheses, scarves, literature, support and encouragement to others who are going through cancer treatment.

I think, over the years, Holt and I have learned to appreciate each other more. Having shared these cancer experiences and going through the recoveries has made us stronger and more grateful for the love and compassion we have for each other.

And I continue to thank God every day for sending me to CTCA.

In 2012, I began feeling unwell. I saw my doctor, who noticed that I had high blood pressure and an abnormality in my level of creatinine, an indicator of kidney function. An ultrasound showed cysts on my kidneys. My doctor told me to see a specialist right away. One day I felt normal, and the next day I felt like a ticking time bomb.

In August of that year, the specialists saw masses that they thought were cancer on both my right and left kidneys. I have always been athletic, healthy and careful about my body. I’m a retired basketball player—I played for the Detroit Pistons, the Atlanta Hawks and the Cleveland Cavaliers. I also played with teams in Spain, Italy and France. I’m strong and fit and never thought that cancer could happen to me. The diagnosis came as a huge shock.

My first surgery was in October 2012 when surgeons removed one tumor from my left kidney. Six months later, at a follow up visit, they found another tumor on the left side. Following my doctors suggestion, we decided to leave it at that time and monitor the tumor.

In July 2013, I had a second surgery to remove a tumor from my right kidney. Three months later, I had a third surgery to remove another tumor on the right kidney. At that point, the doctors were concerned about the possibility of dialysis. From what I understood, they had never seen tumors like mine before. That’s when I chose to seek a second opinion.

My sister had seen an advertisement for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and recommended I look into the hospital. After doing some research, I learned that CTCA® was known for treating all cancer types and stages, including complex cases. It was then I knew CTCA was the right place for me.

When I came to CTCA in the November 2014, I was scared and shaken. But my medical oncologist immediately put me at ease. She saw that I was afraid and she took the time to speak with me and explain her recommended approach. She was funny and approachable, but also confident in the options available to me. I felt safe and at home from the start. She and my urologist were there for me. I appreciated that they made me feel like I was a team player in my treatment plan. Being used to teams from my basketball days, this made me feel comfortable.

In December of that same year, I had surgery on my right kidney to remove two tumors and a cyst. My urologist explained to me that there was a slight chance that my kidney would have to be removed, but emphasized he would do everything he could to avoid that.  I believe that through skill and the grace of God, he was able to spare my kidney.

My care team at CTCA continued to monitor my left kidney for two years. During that time, the mass grew to a size that required removal. In June of 2016, I underwent what we expected to be a final surgery to remove the cancerous tumor.

Seven months later, I had no evidence of disease. I return to CTCA every three to six months for checkups, and do not need additional treatment at this time. To me, the most important thing is that my team of doctors was able to spare both of my kidneys and help me avoid dialysis, which I will forever be grateful for.

Every time I travel to CTCA, I feel welcomed. I meet people who are also grateful for their quality of care, and everyone from the transportation driver to my surgeon and oncology team care about my quality of life.

Every step of the way, my family was treated with respect and with compassion by everyone involved, which gave them a feeling of confidence that I was getting the finest quality of care available.

Today I am living an active and healthy lifestyle. There was a time when I felt afraid for my future, but with the help of CTCA and my faith, I was able to move from those dark feelings into the light—where I stay. Sometimes life leads us through battles, and I made it through this one. I may have scars, but I’m here and as alive as ever. I am running, playing golf and feeling very healthy.

I have also learned to take care of my body in new ways, with the help of nutrition and naturopathic support by means of a weekly class in Philadelphia. I eat whole foods, organic whenever possible, and even put thought into what type of water I drink.

Hearing the “C” word is a shock. At first, I felt helpless and worried that my life was about to end. But when I reached the other side, I was a changed person. I have never enjoyed life so much as I do now.

I feel it’s absolutely essential to refuse to quit when battling cancer, and I feel my team at CTCA never quit on me either. I made it through and am thankful for every day.

I had always felt healthy and had never had any serious health issues. Out of the blue one day at work, I began having bad chest pains. I felt a strong pressure, like a vice grip was squeezing my chest and back. I feared I was having a heart attack. My local doctor did a chest x-ray and saw a mass in my chest. He showed it to me and said that although he thought it was likely cancerous, he could not diagnose it based on an x-ray alone. This all happened a day before my 16-year wedding anniversary.

One of my good friends, who is a nurse practitioner and works for a local pulmonologist, got me in with a pulmonary specialist that evening. An immediate CR (computed radiography) scan was ordered. The pulmonologist told us he thought I had lymphoma, but he would be more certain after seeing the scan. The next day, we went back in and he said he was 95 percent certain of the diagnosis, but I would need a biopsy to confirm.

The biopsy had to be done by a third doctor at a hospital near our home. This was the first surgical procedure in my cancer journey. The doctor made an incision and took 35-40 specimens from the mass from behind my breastbone. This time, the results took three to four weeks. In the meantime, I was in shock and felt gripped by terror. I was nervous and unable to sleep. My family did a lot of praying, and found that our faith helped keep us strong.

As the days went by waiting for the results, I started feeling more optimistic and our friends and family kept a positive outlook. I didn’t want to believe that I could have cancer. We interpreted the delay of my biopsy results as indicating that I probably didn’t have cancer.

That interpretation turned out to be incorrect. After an excruciating wait, we finally got the call with the test results: I had aggressive mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma.

We live in a fairly small town in Oxford, Alabama, and although there are oncologists practicing locally, we wanted to be sure that we knew all of our options. My sister mentioned to us that Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) had a facility in Atlanta, Georgia, just 90 miles from our home. 

I called CTCA and spoke with a representative about my diagnosis and explained that I had no idea what to do next. The man I spoke with told me he would send me some information and explained what I needed to do. I felt so lost at that time, and from that first call, I felt that I could I lean on this person for guidance.

My wife and I went to CTCA for a consultation the week of April 14, 2014. From the moment we arrived, we never felt like we were at a hospital. Everyone there, including the patients, was smiling. They looked happy. Experiencing that atmosphere was a turning point for me. I started feeling better about the road ahead.

During those first few days, I met with many doctors and other members of my care team. They were all onboard to help treat my disease. My wife and I were kept busy during my initial trip, and were very well looked after. During my initial consult, my oncologist ordered a PET scan, I had a port placed and received my very first round of chemotherapy – all in that first week. My oncologist and care team were very aggressive with my care and treatment.

My treatment consisted of eight rounds of chemotherapy with the monoclonal antibody rituximab, plus the regimen known as “CHOP.” I received treatment every three weeks for a total of eight rounds over six months. During my first treatment, I was quite terrified, but the infusion nurses checked on me every few minutes to make sure I was all right, and they answered my questions and generally set me at ease.

Going through chemotherapy was the hardest part of this journey, but my care team at CTCA was able to address the side effects that I faced—nausea, fatigue, abdominal pain, hair loss and neuropathy, to name a few. I received anti-nausea medication and pain treatments, as well as other therapies. My care team also got me in with a doctor to help address the mental fogginess I was experiencing that made it hard to concentrate.

I am grateful for the caregiver I have in my wife, Selena. We got through this together because we want to be there for our children.

I know now that a cancer diagnosis does not always mean certain, sudden death. I just turned 37 years old, and am optimistic about the decades of birthdays to come, watching my kids grow up and graduate high school and enjoying life. My wife and I are back to doing and planning all the things we love as a family—traveling, attending our children’s sports events and just simply being together.

Everyone coping with a cancer diagnosis should know that they have options. Hearing a doctor recommend a treatment does not mean that you must then proceed with that treatment. There are options for care, options for addressing side effects and options for where to be treated. There are so many choices patients can make.

The day that Ken went to the doctor for chest pains, was March 20, 2014, the day before our 16-year wedding anniversary. I was at a pep rally with our daughter when he called to explain that he’d just left the doctor’s office and that there was a mass in his chest the doctor thought might be cancer.

Imagine getting that call and having to get your kids out of school and drive to the doctor to meet your husband.

My mind was racing. I was scared – crying and praying the entire way. I didn't know what to say to our kids. I just told them, “Daddy is sick and we are going to meet him at the doctor.” We were to be leaving on a family vacation with friends to Gatlinburg, TN in a few days, but knew now that Ken and I have to stay home to deal with the tests he needed.

Our children went on the trip with our friends, and we managed to drive up for one night and surprise them before driving back for Ken's biopsy. It was so hard to leave our kids, but we knew we had to keep things are normal as possible for them.

On the inside, we were going through an extremely difficult time awaiting the diagnosis of the biopsy that was done on March 30, 2014. The doctor took 35 or so specimens during the biopsy, but the local pathologists doing the analysis could not make the diagnosis. The results came back inconclusive, so the specimens were sent to a facility in Atlanta for further testing. These were the worst few weeks of our lives. After running several different tests, we finally received the diagnosis.

After doing our own research and hearing about CTCA from Ken’s sister, I was ready to try CTCA. From the moment we arrived, I was impressed. The atmosphere is one that you’re more likely to find at a resort than at a hospital. I was impressed by how knowledgeable, yet down-to-earth, the staff is. We were made comfortable right away. The doctors explained everything, which helped calm our nerves and ease our fears.

Ken's care team immediately went to work coming up with a plan of care. On April 16, 2014 Ken had a bone marrow aspiration and his first PET scan. With the diagnosis confirmed, Ken had port placement on April 18, 2014 and his first round of chemotherapy that same day.  Everything was explained to us along the way and we felt very comfortable with the plan of care.

Chemotherapy was difficult for Ken. It was hard to watch him go through this time – to see him lying on the couch sick and in pain, with no strength to even get up – but CTCA provided excellent support. They recommended medications and other approaches for alleviating his symptoms. Three days after the port was placed, his arm became red and his hand and fingers grew numb. I called CTCA and was able to speak directly with the surgeon who placed the port. He explained that Ken probably had a minute clot and asked if we could get to CTCA. Once we arrived, Ken received attention and the issue was resolved quickly. As a nurse for 12 years, I can tell you how unusual it is for a patient or caregiver to be able to speak directly with a surgeon. This shows the care and compassion CTCA has for patients.

We got to know some of the staff members on a personal basis during Ken’s chemotherapy treatments. Those who we’d become acquainted with would come talk to Ken during his infusion, even when they weren’t involved in his care. For example, Ken was at CTCA around the time of his birthday, and one of the infusion nurses who we had gotten to know saw it on Facebook and brought him a cake to celebrate.

Occasionally, we brought the children with us for Ken’s appointments. We wanted them to be at ease about the treatments and thought seeing CTCA would help. The staff was phenomenal with them. The children painted, played pool and engaged in other activities. The focus was on the patient, the caregiver and the entire family.

I cannot count the number of times that someone at CTCA has seen me walking through the halls and stopped to ask how I am doing. The staff has given me so much support, and so have the other patients and families there. We keep each other strong and give each other the support we all need. That is why Ken and I were excited to be asked to join Cancer Fighters® Care Net as a way of giving back and speaking with newly diagnosed patients considering CTCA and explaining to them our experience. It is very rewarding to speak with patients and caregivers and let them know there is hope with a cancer diagnosis and to trust the expertise of the top-notch staff at CTCA.

There are days when you want to give up. In those moments, we pray for strength. I always encourage others to do the same, in whatever way works best for them. There is hope in the journey and at CTCA.

When I was diagnosed, at age 64, I had no outward symptoms of prostate cancer, which is often the case with this disease. I’d been monitoring my prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels, a possible indicator of prostate cancer, along with digital exam for ten years at my annual physicals. When my PSA score started to rise, the doctor suggested (and I knew it was time for) a biopsy.

I worked as a respiratory therapist, with experience in outpatient, inpatient, home care and aero-medical transport. In 2009, I was working at one of the top-ranked hospitals in the country. I went to see a urologist there for my biopsy. He determined that there was cancer in my prostate, and we agreed that the best course of action was surgery. I had a prostatectomy with robotic assist.

Unfortunately, the cancer had spread beyond the prostate. This spreading was impossible to detect prior to surgery, and I know that my surgeon did the best he could to remove the cancer from my body. But four months after the operation, my PSA was rising again.

At that time, my surgeon recommended watching and waiting, rather than pursuing further treatment. My wife, an RN, and I began researching other options, which included information regarding Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). We visited the location in suburban Chicago in 2011 for tests and evaluation over the course of three days. Based on test results and extensive conversations with the radiation and medical oncologists there, we (it was “we” not “me” because my wife and I were in this together) decided to pursue radiation with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT).

Deciding on IMRT was not easy. It meant eight weeks far from our home in Florida, and being away from my wife and son, as they both worked full time. It also meant taking a leave of absence from work, to spend two months in suburban Chicago, including over the Christmas and New Year holidays. Winter in Chicago is quite different from winter in Florida, but my wife and I felt it was worth the leap of faith to go for it.

We had explored other options, but we didn’t think that any other facility offered what CTCA® could offer, which is patient-centered care. CTCA offers expert medical professionals who make recommendations and invite the patient and caregiver to be part of the decision-making process. The integrated care options like nutrition therapy, naturopathic medicine and spiritual support were an integral part of the experience for me. I also felt that acupuncture, massage therapy and mind-body medicine were vital to my care.

The eight weeks I spent in Chicago far exceeded my expectations. CTCA made every effort to provide activities for me to participate in so that I would not feel isolated in my room. I never felt alone there. I became involved with the Cancer Fighters® network at that time and joined group outings to Christmas-related events that I would probably not have done back home. Those experiences took my mind off cancer, the treatment and the side effects. A wonderful benefit was they enhanced my spirit and motivation to get well.

With regard to side effects, there were always people available to help me whenever problems arose. A naturopathic oncology provider, physician or dietitian would recommend a solution to help ease the side effects almost immediately.

It was my son who began calling my trip to CTCA my “radiation vacation.” I guess he was right. When things are difficult, CTCA goes above and beyond to make life more comfortable. The transportation staff even made arrangements for me to spend the weekend with my daughter and her family in St. Louis, Missouri, during the holiday.

Not having my wife/caregiver with me made it crucial that I understood the test results and explanations that my care team was relating regarding all aspects of my cancer treatment. My wife/advocate was in Florida, so I had to rely on great communication and trust the caring relationships established with my physicians and their staff. They acted in my best interests and the secure patient portal allowed my wife access to my test results the same time they were available to my doctors and me. This gave her assurance of my well-being.

I am currently on hormone therapy. I have no evidence of disease, and I am visiting my oncologist annually. I try to keep up with a proper diet and exercise. I want to put to good use all the advice and help I’ve received from the dietitians and other experts at CTCA. Toward that end, I am now actively involved with Cancer Fighters Care Net, a network of CTCA patients available to speak with newly diagnosed patients seeking information and insights. I was also appointed to the CTCA Patient Advisory Council from 2014 to 2015. I’m honored to be part of these groups because they give me a chance to bring hope to patients in their cancer journey, and to be a voice for them with the CTCA Board of Directors.

I retired in September 2015, and my wife retired in June 2016. This allows us to travel and spend time with our two grandsons. It was great to return to CTCA for Celebrate Life® in June 2016. And I continue to be in touch with many of the people I met during my treatment at CTCA. From the janitor at the hospital to the CEO, everyone on staff was incredibly warm and friendly to me, and patients I met are still on my phone list. In fact, I share my story when appropriate, which has helped others explore CTCA as an option for cancer treatment. In March 2017, my wife and I received training through Our Journey of Hope®, sponsored by CTCA. We took this training back to our church in Florida and have started a Cancer Care Ministry for our community. When a person is as blessed as I have been, it is good to share those blessings with others.

I was born and raised in Chicago, Illinois. I grew up with my mom, dad and brother. At age 25, I met the love of my life, Cathy, and we married a year later. Then tragedy struck when I was 30 years old and my father passed away due to complications from diabetes. My brother, who took my father’s death hard, died two weeks later at the age of 33. Our family was heartbroken.

We all supported one another and pushed ahead, but there were difficult times. At that time, I started to put up emotional walls. I figured that as long as I don’t let down those walls, nobody could hurt me.

I grew up in a Christian home, going to church every Sunday. When I was old enough, as a teenager, I made the decision to stop going. Then I had two kids, and that changed everything: I wanted to expose my children to faith and a community, so we all started going to church every Sunday. I rededicated my life to God and let him guide me moving forward.

Then, I started planning for my retirement from my 25-year career as a quality technician for a research equipment company, which I don’t see as an end but rather beginning. My idea of retirement is that it is a time to find something to do that I enjoy and I am passionate about. So in 2014, I started seminary school to further build a solid Christian foundation that will equip me with the values, knowledge and skills essential for the next phase of my life.

Things were going well, and then I noticed something different. In early 2016, I started having problems swallowing food. It felt like things were getting stuck in my throat. I went to my doctor, and he didn’t see anything but advised that I get an endoscopy.

The doctor performing the procedure saw a mass and sent me straight in for a CAT scan. I returned the following week for the results, and he told me I had a mass in my esophagus that was also partially in my stomach.

It hit me hard. I wasn’t afraid to die, but I did have discussions with God. “I have the rest of eternity to spend with you. Can I get a little time here, please?” However, I was ready to accept my fate because if I die, I get into heaven, and if I don’t, I’m still here on Earth sharing my faith.

I really didn’t want to go through with chemotherapy and radiation therapy. So I began researching and looking at all my options. Then one day, a good friend of mine calls and tells me about a commercial he saw on television for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). He explained that they combined conventional treatments like chemotherapy and radiation to treat the cancer, while using supportive care therapies to help strengthen the whole body. This sounded what I was looking for.

I called CTCA®, and after speaking to an Oncology Information Specialist for over two hours, I felt that I had to go to see if it was right for me. I made an appointment to go to the hospital in Suburban Chicago. CTCA helped obtain all my past medical history and test results.

When I walked through the doors of the hospital, I knew was in the right place. At CTCA, I didn’t see one doctor; I saw a team of doctors and clinicians who consulted with one another about treatment that would be appropriate for me. I was treated with compassionate care as a whole individual. I appreciated that. Together, we created a treatment plan that was tailored to me and my needs.

After completing diagnostic testing at CTCA, I found out my cancer was stage III. In April 2016, I started six weeks of chemotherapy and radiation to fight the cancer. I continued to work part-time every day from 6 to 11 a.m. I would then go to CTCA to complete my treatments. I took advantage of several supportive therapies, such as nutrition and naturopathic medicine, to combat my side effects, including nausea and fatigue.

In August 2016, I had surgery. I underwent a total gastrectomy, which removed my stomach and part of my esophagus, then reattached the small intestines to my remaining esophagus. I was off the feeding tube two days after surgery. I was determined to get up and get moving during my recovery, which I felt went well. While my wife was at work, I would walk around our neighborhood.

Throughout my treatment, I have lost a lot of weight, and there were times I wasn’t sure if I could make it through. But I trusted in God and my care team to help me finish it. My wife also encouraged me and stood by my side. With their support, I completed my treatment plan.

Today, I have no evidence of disease, and I return to CTCA every three months for checkups. After my surgery, I did take oral chemotherapy for three months to reduce my risk of recurrence. While I now eat smaller and more frequent meals since I no longer have a stomach, I am adjusting to my new normal. I have good days and bad, but I always have a positive attitude knowing that I survived.

I am continuing my faith studies, and we will see where that path eventually takes me. I am an active volunteer at my church and in my community, and I participate in 5K races to raise funds for cancer awareness and research. I frequently share with others what I have learned about God and our journey here on Earth. I also talk to those with cancer and share my journey. I tell them that you have to take it day by day. You can’t start thinking about what-ifs. You have to look at it with a better perspective, with a positive perspective. It’s very easy to get negative about anything. But it won’t do you any good. Think positive thoughts. That’s truly the biggest emotional battle to fight.

My cancer journey has taught me so much. But the most important lesson I learned was to let down my emotional walls. Cancer has given me self-confidence, and now with my walls down, I am trusting God fully to guide me. I am “all in.”

I am grateful for every moment, and I enjoy spending time with my wife, children and three grandchildren, who are the center of my universe. I know I am blessed to be here, and I am going to make the most of my days.

My journey began when I was 44 years old. In May 2009, I was constipated and noticed blood in my stool. I assumed this was normal because it happened often. The blood was new, but not consistent, so I tried my best to ignore it and hadn’t planned on seeing a doctor. But when my son had to cancel a scheduled doctor appointment in August 2009 at the last minute, I decided to take his place. I felt that this was a sign. The doctor examined me and recommended I see a gastroenterologist for a colonoscopy.

After the colonoscopy, the gastroenterologist told me that he found a polyp but didn’t remove it. He shared that removing the polyp would have been painful, and instead he referred me to a general surgeon.

Being a thyroid cancer survivor of six years at the time, I wanted to get this taken care of quickly. I saw the surgeon and had the polyp removed. More than a week later, he called and said, “You have anal squamous carcinoma.” I couldn’t believe I was facing cancer again. I later learned that the two cancers were completely unrelated. The surgeon then recommended more surgery. However, the surgeon did not have a lot of experience with my cancer type, and I was unable to schedule a surgery in the time frame I wanted at the hospital where I previously treated—I wanted to move quicker. I decided to research my options and get educated.

When I called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist who gathered my information quickly. He told me that the hospitals in Suburban Chicago and Philadelphia were my best options. Since Chicago is closer to my home in Iowa, I scheduled appointments there starting the Monday after Thanksgiving.

At CTCA, the atmosphere was completely different than any other hospital I’d been to. I felt that the people who work there truly cared about me. I was given a choice: I could have more surgery, or I could start on chemotherapy and radiation right away. I decided on surgery first. My surgeon felt confident he could perform the surgery without injuring my sphincter and that I wouldn’t need a colostomy. If that procedure could remove the cancer, then I wanted to avoid chemotherapy and radiation. That decision was made on a Thursday at 4 p.m. My surgeon did surgery the next morning at 10 a.m., and I was on a plane home Saturday, the next day. I was impressed with the speed to care.

At the three-month checkup, all was good. However, at six months, the cancer had returned. There was a significant growth in a lymph node in my groin. I could see the lump and noticed it was growing fast. In July 2010, my surgeon removed the tumor and sent me home for a month to recover. In August 2010, I elected to have chemotherapy and radiation. The chemo was delivered through an intravenous drip over 96 hours. Concurrently, I had 25 Tomotherapy® radiation treatments. I remained at CTCA for five and a half weeks during this time, coming home only for Labor Day weekend.

Sometimes the treatment was difficult. I experienced some side effects, and CTCA was proactive by suggesting remedies to help. When one thing didn’t work to help reduce my nausea, my care team continued trying different remedies until I felt better. And when I had pain in my back and legs, I visited the oncology rehabilitation team and the Quality of Life center to find relief. I also took advantage of the nutrition, naturopathic medicine, massage, Reiki therapy, acupuncture and chiropractic services. I was grateful to my team’s relentless support because it allowed me to stay strong enough during recovery.

My faith and the support I had from my family and friends, especially my husband, helped me get through this time. The connections that I made during the weeks I stayed at CTCA® were also invaluable. A patient I met became a lifelong friend, and even though we live far away from each other, we speak on the phone regularly and continue to be part of each other’s lives.

Cancer is scary. I remember asking what if the treatment didn’t work? What would happen then? I still ask my doctors about the recommended treatment plan if the cancer returns. But I learned to trust my care team, to put my faith in their expertise, and at the same time, to listen to my own instincts.

Some people have shared their hesitation of traveling for cancer care with me. However, I wouldn’t change my mind about traveling and staying at CTCA for treatment. If I would have been at home, I would have focused on or worried about the cooking, cleaning, and maintaining my routine. Staying at CTCA, I could just focus on getting well. Being removed from my normal routine contributed in a positive way to getting through treatment. Each day, I wrote a journal entry and shared it electronically with my friends and family back home in Iowa. Some people said it sounded like I was on vacation. In reality, treatment was difficult but doable with the support of my care team.

I was also surrounded by people going through what I was going through—a total support network. My husband was with me for part of the time, but we both agreed that he needed to continue to work, as that was best for both of us. Family and friends came to visit for two or three days at a time, and I was on my own some, but never alone. The care team and the patients I met became my extended family. I was also able to continue my work as an online course teacher during treatment.

I believe I have a strong desire and will to live. Going through cancer treatment changed me for the better. It gave me a new perspective on life. I have made lifestyle changes, and my outlook on the future is optimistic. As of July 2017, seven years out from treatment, I have no evidence of disease. I return to CTCA once a year for maintenance.

After treatment, my husband and I went to live on my grandparent’s farm. We have lived at the acreage on the farm for 10 years. Three years ago, we decided on becoming farmers and start the transition to organic. We farm in addition to our day jobs. In May 2017, we really took a leap and planted five and a half acres of blueberries (eight varieties). My days are spent weeding, watering and thinking about what it will be like when I open to U-pickers in a few years.

I thank God for each day I have and hope that my story can be an encouragement to someone else facing cancer.

After noticing a lump during a breast self-exam in 2010 I had a biopsy. I received a dreaded result—it was cancer. A lumpectomy and sentinel node biopsy revealed tumors in three lymph nodes that were larger than the one in my breast. I was diagnosed with stage II breast cancer, and I would require another surgery to get a clean margin, as well as chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

I was devastated. I was still grieving the loss of my husband, Gary, from a heart attack. I felt overwhelmed by fear. I thought cancer would change my life forever, and I was discouraged. I felt my body had somehow betrayed me. Before my diagnosis, I exercised and ate well; I was healthy. It seemed so unfair. I felt it was beyond my ability to cope.

Gradually, my thoughts shifted: I realized as unreal and unfair as it seemed, I did have cancer and I wanted to fight: I was ready to fight the fear and the invasion of cancer cells in my body.

Determined to put up a strong fight, my son and I went to an Army surplus store for camouflage gear—something I could wear to remind myself that this was a war and I had a job to do. I stopped thinking of chemotherapy and radiation as my enemy and began thinking of them as my weapons.

I was looking for a place where I could receive comprehensive treatment from experts. Around this time, a friend suggested that I call Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), where her husband had received treatment. I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist at CTCA® on a Saturday. He was kind and compassionate. On that following Monday, I flew from Colorado to Illinois so I could have a consultation with the doctors at the CTCA facility in suburban Chicago.

During that first visit, I met with several doctors, clinicians, a naturopathic oncology provider, dietitian, mind-body therapist and a pastor. When I was presented with a treatment plan, I felt that CTCA was the place where I would be the best equipped and most supported. I knew that I would be surrounded by fellow warriors that were willing to invest in a relationship with me. Their hope and encouragement increased my hopefulness. So I decided to pursue treatment at CTCA in suburban Chicago.

My medical oncologist explained that the breast cancer I had was very aggressive. She was confident about the treatment plan she presented to me, which included a mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiation. She said it was imperative that I begin treatment immediately. She told me I would most likely lose my hair and have other side effects, which my care team would help me manage. I loved her no-nonsense approach to my care. I now had a battle plan.

The night before my first chemo treatment my son, who was a student at the University of Colorado at the time, shaved his head and sent me a picture. I was touched by his steadfast support. Before my second treatment, his roommate shaved his head. I struggled with chemotherapy and did lose my hair. I talked with my son, who encouraged and reminded me that I was strong and I could go the distance, that I could do this, and that many people cared and were cheering me on. I was not alone in this fight. His support gave me the strength and courage I needed to continue. I completed three different chemotherapy regimens, and then went on to complete radiation treatments.

My CTCA care team helped me to manage the side effects. I chose to view the loss of my hair as an affirmation that the chemotherapy was working. I decided to have fun with wigs. And when a hospital volunteer offered me a selection of pretty, hand-knitted hats that I could wear while sleeping to keep my bald head warm and comfortable, my heart was blessed by this thoughtfulness.

Telluride, Colorado, where I reside, is very conducive to outdoor activities. I enjoy kayaking, skiing, fishing, hiking, running, dancing and horseback riding. I also love to turn cartwheels. During chemotherapy, I did not feel I could enjoy any of these activities. But as I completed chemotherapy and began to feel better, I decided to try doing a cartwheel. I discovered I did not yet have the strength, but I was hopeful that in time I would. After radiation, although I was feeling stronger, scar tissue restricted the range of motion of my shoulder so I still could not do a cartwheel.

Upon completion of treatment, I met with a surgeon who specializes in breast reconstructive surgery. Together we decided to try a free-flap procedure in which tissue from my abdomen would be moved to the area where my breast had been. I was told the procedure would require more than one surgery. As I understood it, radiation prevented me from having a breast implant, so this approach was the only option for reconstruction. Once again, CTCA was able to provide for my needs.

The first surgery lasted about 11 hours. When I awoke, my reconstructive surgeon was there, instructing the nurses and reassuring me that all was well and that he was pleased with the results. At a post-operative appointment, I asked him if I could try a cartwheel. With his encouragement, I gave it a try. Right in the hallway of CTCA, I did a cartwheel. In fact, I turned three more cartwheels that day, to the delight of the CTCA staff who had indeed become friends during my journey of healing and restoration.

As a patient going through cancer treatment, it has meant so much to be surrounded by so many caring people. The staff at CTCA seemed to always know exactly what I needed. They knew what would make a difference in my well-being, and what would give me peace, confidence and hope. Each day of my treatment, as I arrived in my camo gear, I felt the support and encouragement of doctors, nurses, clinicians, therapists, pastors and other staff members: a long list of individuals who were willing to invest in me. They were an important part of my fight.

Since September 2011, I have had no evidence of cancer. My medical oncologist was the first to report when I reached this status, and there was such joy in her voice when she told me. I was ecstatic! I feel healthy and strong. My hair has grown back thick and silver. I love this new look—it is a victory flag, because I am a survivor.

Now I know I have the strength to fight any battle. Cancer is not a good thing, but good has come out of my experience with this disease. If there is a fight before me, I can fight. I also want to rejoice in every day. Each sunrise and sunset is a blessing. Cancer cannot make me afraid without my permission, and I refuse to give it permission. So I feed my faith, not my fears.

The caregivers at CTCA were an integral part of bringing me through a difficult and frightening time into an experience that I could embrace and by which I could be strengthened. CTCA continues to care for me and guide me in my pursuit of optimal health and wellness. When I walk into CTCA I feel surrounded by people who sincerely care about me.

In 2014, I married my best friend, Jon. He is my rock, and we were together for nine years before saying, “I do.” Being a newlywed was a blissful time, but that didn’t last long. Shortly after the big day had passed, I began to feel ill and experience digestive issues. I went to the doctor and completed an endoscopy and colonoscopy. They told me at the time that they had found something suspicious but that I had to wait for the test results to come back to confirm any malignancy.

I hated the waiting. It was a slow, anxious journey. During the time that I was in limbo and waiting on results, I kept seeing commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I took notice and really paid attention to the commercials since the patients’ stories now seemed relevant to me. Then, I finally went back to the doctor, and he gave me the news I dreaded hearing. “It’s cancer,” he said.  

I went home and called my husband, who was working as a union electrician. I remember just feeling scared and unsure of the future. The time was a blur, but I eventually turned on the television, and when I did, I saw another commercial for CTCA®. I knew that this was God’s way of speaking to me.

I felt that I had to go to CTCA and see if it was right for me. I called and made an appointment to go to the hospital in Suburban Chicago. Before I knew it, CTCA took care of getting all my past medical history and test results, and I was traveling from Texas to Illinois.

My husband couldn’t take time off of work, so my aunt who raised me accompanied me on my initial evaluation. Our family was very familiar with cancer. My father died of lung cancer, and my mother had battled breast cancer. Various other relatives also had past cancer diagnoses.

When we walked through the door of the hospital in Zion, it hit me that I was in the right place. I met with my medical oncologist and his team. He ordered more tests so we could better understand what was going on. Then, together, we created a treatment plan that was right for me.

At CTCA, I didn’t see one doctor; I saw a team of doctors and clinicians who consulted with one another about treatment that would be appropriate for me. I was treated with compassionate care as a whole individual. I appreciated that.

We decided to start chemotherapy in October 2014. I got to take a break from chemotherapy over the holidays, and then I had surgery at the beginning of the new year. Before surgery, I completed scans, and the doctors couldn’t find any signs of cancer. But to be safe, I underwent a total gastrectomy, which totally removes the stomach and reattaches the small intestines to the esophagus. After surgery, my care team determined that the cancer had not spread to my lymph nodes.

I spent almost three weeks at the hospital. I had a feeding tube inserted during the surgery, and adjusting to that was hard. I took advantage of several of the integrative therapies offered at CTCA to combat my side effects, including nausea. I also worked with spiritual support provders throughout my treatment. I let them know early on that I wanted to pray before any type of procedure.

After my surgery, I completed three rounds of chemotherapy. This was a really difficult time because I didn’t feel well. I lost weight, and I honestly didn’t know if I could make it through. But I trusted in God and my care team to help me finish it. My sister and my aunt also encouraged me and stood by my side. With their support, I completed my last round in April.

After scans came back clear, I had surgery to remove my port and feeding tube. Since March 2017, I have had no evidence of disease, and I still return to CTCA every year for check-ups and dilation of the esophagus.

I am adjusting to my new normal. I have good days and bad, but I always have a positive attitude knowing that I survived. I love spending time with my husband. We often sit outside looking at the stars and enjoying our back porch, not taking our time together for granted. I also enjoy spending time with my son and two grandsons, who are the center of my universe. Also, I am expecting a granddaughter in July. I am grateful for every moment.

I am looking forward for my opportunity to attend a Celebrate Life® event. The annual event honors CTCA patients who are celebrating their five-year anniversaries as cancer survivors. I can’t wait to celebrate with others who went through a similar cancer journey.

I grew up in Elkhart, Indiana, and I have moved around quite a bit. In 2012, my wife, Jana, and I moved to our present home in Prescott Valley, Arizona. We had both just finished getting our PhDs and completed tenure at Purdue University in Northwest Indiana. I had obtained my PhD in information technology. Although we loved teaching, the warm weather was calling us and we knew we wanted to move south. My wife received a full-time position at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University, and I was able to teach part-time at the same university.   

In the spring of 2014, I was offered a position to teach full-time that following fall. I was really excited for the opportunity. However, I began experiencing many urinary infections before I could start the position. I saw my primary care doctor, and I would be treated for the issue, but the infections continued to reoccur. My wife suggested that I see an oncologist, and after a series of tests, it was quickly determined that I had bladder cancer. I don’t remember much about this time because I was in a state of shock. I panicked and kind of shut down.

The initial treatment recommendation was to remove my bladder, and I would have a colostomy bag. I knew that this wasn’t what I wanted. My wife and I began looking for other treatment centers. We called several but felt they weren’t the right fit. Finally, my wife saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and called the phone number in the ad. She spoke to someone who really eased our concerns. CTCA® would handle all the steps necessary for getting a second opinion. The representative at CTCA was so patient and kind, we decided that we wanted to at least go for the initial evaluation to check it out at the center in Zion, Illinois.

From the start, Jana and I were impressed by how fast we were able to get information, results and appointments. At CTCA, everything is under one roof, and we didn’t have to spend a lot of time waiting and wondering. We were able to get my test results quickly. When we had questions, we got responses quickly. We just felt like we were in the right place, right from the start.

By the end of my evaluation, Jana and I had decided that CTCA was the right place for me. I started treatment right away and worked with my medical oncologist to develop a schedule that worked with my job responsibilities. I would teach on Monday and Wednesday mornings. Between classes, I would go to the local hospital to have my blood drawn and then have it sent to CTCA. Wednesday afternoon, after I had finished my last class of the day, I would drive to Phoenix and catch the last flight to Chicago. Thursday, I would get another blood draw and occasionally a CT scan. In the afternoon, I would receive chemotherapy. As soon as I was finished with the chemotherapy, I would head back to the Chicago airport and catch the last flight back to Phoenix. I would arrive home late that night so I could teach on Friday. It was complicated and exhausting at times, but I made that sacrifice because I trusted in the capabilities of the CTCA doctors and clinicians. I had very few side effects and felt I had enough energy to keep up with this routine.

The personal contact and the way I was treated by my care team, and by everyone at CTCA, was like nothing I had experienced before. When I go there, everyone knows my name and smiles abound. It felt different and special. I tell others that CTCA is my happy place.

In December 2014, during winter break, I had surgery. My doctors removed my bladder, prostate and some lymph nodes and constructed a new bladder with neobladder reconstruction. As I understand it, during the procedure, my surgeon used a piece of my intestine to create a new bladder that allowed me to urinate voluntarily and maintain continence. This meant that I didn’t need a colostomy bag, which I dreaded. I was scheduled to stay in the hospital through Christmas, but the surgery was so successful that I was allowed to return home for Christmas. What a wonderful Christmas gift it was.

The recovery went well, and I used supportive care therapies like nutrition and naturopathic support to help alleviate symptoms I encountered.

While I was going through treatment, everyone at CTCA, from the clinicians and employees to the other patients, were all so kind. I am thankful that I was able to be in a positive and uplifting environment to make my cancer journey better. I currently have no evidence of disease, and I go back to CTCA every six months for check-ups. I feel pretty normal.

I am retired now, and I am busier than ever, especially with my kids and grandkids. I love spending time with them. I also refurbish model trains, travel and play plenty of golf. Jana and I have begun building our dream home. This takes a lot of planning, designing and researching. I have somehow convinced Jana that it would a great addition to run train tracks throughout the house to reflect my model train hobby. We got certified to scuba dive, so we can go out diving on our next vacation. Jana and I have three golden doodles, and we are working on training them to be therapy dogs, so we can give back to others. I make the most of every second, minute, hour and day.

Facing a cancer diagnosis was hard—there’s no way around that. But I couldn’t be more pleased with the way my journey has transpired. I wouldn’t wish it on anybody to receive a cancer diagnosis, but if you have to get treatment, I recommend considering CTCA.

For many years, I’d been having symptoms that would come and go—low-grade fevers, night sweats, a mild cough. The symptoms always came together, and they would go away together. After a regular check-up, my general practioner saw something in my blood and told me I needed to see a hematologist. Only when I called the phone number he’d given me did I realize he’d sent me to a cancer center.

At this local cancer center, near our home in Hamilton, Montana, I had a blood test, a chest x-ray, and a bone marrow biopsy. The biopsy, which was extremely painful, led to the diagnosis of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). I was 51 years old at the time.

But a diagnosis of NHL always comes with a subtype, and my hematologist could not find enough tissue in my lymph nodes to determine the subtype. He told me that I needed another bone marrow biopsy; he was almost certain what type of NHL it was, but another biopsy was necessary to make it definite.

During the next three months, I underwent several procedures, including a splenectomy. Once my spleen was removed, the symptoms disappeared. I felt like a new person. My doctor put me on “watch and wait,” knowing that the cancer would return but unsure of when. Some friends and I had a girls’ trip to Italy planned for August 2012. Three weeks before we left, the cancer returned. I went on the trip and saw my hematologist as soon as I returned.

When my symptoms returned, my doctor told me that he needed to do another bone marrow biopsy. The cancer was in the bone marrow, and accessing that area was the only way he could make a diagnosis, and making a diagnosis was the only way to determine the best treatment. I understood, but I did wanted a general anesthetic for the procedure. I just could not go through that pain again. My doctor was hesitant to commit to a general anesthetic, but after several minutes of talking about it together, he seemed to agree. But when I spoke to a nurse about the arrangements for my appointment, she said I’d be given a valium and that was it.

I called my doctor about the confusion, but never got a response. I kept trying to tell myself to be a big girl, just suck it up, that I would be fine. But I just could not go through another procedure like that without general anesthesia.

Then a nurse who was taking care of my father-in-law told us her niece had gone to the Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) facility in Chicago. I had seen the commercials but had never considered calling; the traveling would be too costly for me. But hearing about it this time, feeling desperate, I decided to call.

The representative I spoke with told me that I could go for just a bone marrow biopsy with general anesthesia. When he told me to keep an eye out for my itinerary and hotel reservations, I was floored. He explained that CTCA would cover my flight, that someone would pick me up at the airport, and that my hotel reservation was also settled. The amount of stress that this relieved was incredible.

When I got to the hotel, I was nervous. But no sooner had I started wondering where I was supposed to go and who I was supposed to see than a schedule was slipped under my hotel room door telling me everything I needed to know. It was great.

I had the bone marrow biopsy and a couple of other tests. When I met with the oncologist afterwards, he told me that he could diagnose the subtype of NHL that I had. Right then I decided to stay at CTCA for treatment.

My experience being treated at CTCA continued to follow in this same vein. For one of my visits, the flight was very late due to bad weather. We’d spent hours sitting on the runway. When I finally arrived I was very hungry but the cafeteria was closed. When I got to my hotel room, there was a sandwich, chips, an apple and a bottle of water waiting for me. When I went through the first round of testing in 2008, I had a binder filled with insurance information. At CTCA, I received one bill and all the red tape was handled by the staff there. All of this care relieves an enormous amount of stress.

The treatment itself was not as bad as I’d feared. I was able to handle the chemotherapy, and although I experienced the normal few days of not feeling well afterwards, I was able to keep going. Anti-nausea medication was helpful, but there were no other side effects out of the ordinary that required addressing.

Still, the fear that comes with cancer treatment was always there. I would try not to think about when I wasn’t actively receiving treatment. But when you’re sitting in a chair having chemotherapy, it’s impossible to not have some worry. The level of care at CTCA helped alleviate those fears. From the drivers to the housekeeping staff to the doctors and nurses—I have never experienced such personal treatment. I wasn’t asking for anything special; the care was just inherent in the way people were with me and with every other patient there.

My experience with a cancer diagnosis has shown me how important it is to feel comfortable with one’s medical care. If something is not right for me, then I don’t have to do it—that may sound obvious, but it was a lesson I had to learn. I have the right to take care of myself, and I have to find a doctor who really wants to take care of me.

The care given to me at CTCA helped me cope with cancer and its treatment. The range of activities offered if you’re feeling well enough; the refusal to deliver a prognosis in terms of years or months of life left; the attitude among all the staff—all of this keeps you focused on living. When I am there, I feel good. The treatment worked and now I’m able to keep living. And I know that if I ever experience problems again, CTCA will do whatever is needed to keep me going.

In 2015, I gave birth to our second child, Whittaker. My husband, Nick, and I also have a daughter, Margaux, who was 2 years old at the time of Whitty’s birth. Near Whitty’s 1st birthday, I turned 40, and my doctor recommended that I get a baseline mammogram. But I was still breastfeeding, so I had to wait. After completing breastfeeding, I went in to see my gynecologist for my annual check-up. I mentioned that I had some pain in my right breast and I felt a small lump, which I always attributed to my milk supply. My doctor ordered my first mammogram, and I went in April 2016 to complete it.

During the mammogram, the technician discovered three lumps. I wanted to know right away what I was dealing with and requested a biopsy immediately. I knew what I wanted, and I knew I had to be my own advocate. Through my persistence, and a bit of luck, I had the biopsy the same day. A few days later, I received the news from my doctor: I had HER2-positive breast cancer.

I was in shock, and I went through the next few weeks in a haze. I was scheduling and coordinating all these doctor’s visits and lab procedures. I was constantly on the phone. I underwent many tests and diagnostic procedures and saw so many doctors, including a medical oncologist. Through all of this, I kept thinking, where do I fit into my care? I felt my frustration building. Then one day, my husband and I faced a decision to either continue with the status quo or to take my power back and be the “general” of my cancer battle. I needed to find the right doctors to help support me and my family in this fight. That’s when I decided to start doing my own research and look for cancer treatment that was right for me.

My research led me to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I had a friend who worked there, and I figured I would at least go in to get more information and see if it was the right fit for me. Despite this, I was still nervous about the idea of changing doctors. My initial evaluation at the hospital was quickly and efficiently scheduled. CTCA® even took care of obtaining my old medical records, verifying my insurance and all the details that I was worried might slip through the cracks.

I walked into the hospital in Zion, Illinois, and was immediately greeted in the front lobby. The receptionist actually said that they were waiting for me. I was given a hospital tour and introduced to other employees at the hospital. Then I received a printed schedule showing the dates and times of all my appointments. My treatment was outlined and coordinated. I knew where I had to go and when. It was a huge relief to have everything so organized for me.

Meeting my care team, I knew I was in the right place. I realized that cancer treatment isn’t the same everywhere. At CTCA, I had a team of doctors and clinicians focused on treating my cancer. They worried about my treatment. I only had to worry about me.

I also strongly feel that the body, mind and spirit are all connected and that you can’t treat cancer in isolation. I feel that nutrition, stress, physical therapy, etc., all play a part in my wellness. So I wanted to take advantage of the supportive care therapies available at CTCA, specifically nutrition and naturopathic medicine. The best part was that everything was available under one roof and I didn’t have to wait weeks for scheduling.

I underwent genetic testing, and the results determined that my cancer was not linked to a known genetic mutation. I was glad for my children’s future health to learn this, but my mindset was I don’t care how I got it; I just want to stop it. I met with my doctors, and many treatment options were presented to me. I chose the one that felt right for me and opted for chemotherapy followed by a double mastectomy.

My first round of chemotherapy was in June 2016. I experienced side effects, which my team outlined for me, and as needed, suggested supplements to help address them. In September 2016, I had a bilateral nipple-sparing mastectomy with immediate, one-step breast reconstruction using pre-pectoral anatomic-shaped silicone gel implants. At CTCA, my surgical oncologist and reconstructive surgeon performed my surgery together, in the same procedure. I wanted to get it all done at once, and I really appreciated CTCA working with me to combine the two surgeries into one. I thought my treatment was complete.  However, my surgical oncologist performed a sentinel lymph node test during the mastectomy. The final results from the lymph node testing came back positive for cancer (the initial test was negative), and my surgeon called me directly with the news, which was a pleasant surprise. A follow-up surgery was immediately scheduled to remove the additional lymph nodes.

After healing from surgery, I was able to quickly start radiation therapy in November 2016. An incident with fluid build-up around my right implant during radiation was addressed by my care team swiftly and professionally. I was then able to finish treatment early. After completing radiation, I started on the last piece of my treatment plan: a second round of chemotherapy because of the positive lymph nodes. I experienced some side effects, but they were quickly addressed by my team of doctors and the supportive therapies offered at CTCA. I was able to complete all my treatments by May 2017. The rapid response and sense of urgency to everything I brought up was above and beyond anything I had expected or experienced before.

At CTCA, the focus is exclusively on cancer, with a complete whole-person approach. I had a comprehensive team that was working for me and personalizing my care, and I felt that my opinion and concerns were heard. I was more than satisfied in my cancer treatment, and I want to tell everyone I know about the excellent care I received. I didn’t realize what I was missing or what support I needed until I came to CTCA and my care team educated me about all the possibilities and options. The doctors, clinicians and employees at CTCA all showed me what compassionate care truly means.

I am happy to report that recent tests showed no evidence of cancer, though I continue to meet with my CTCA care team every three months to monitor my status and assess my needs. Eventually, if my tests continue to show no signs of disease, my follow-up visits will be extended to every six months, then once a year.

Based on my personal experiences, I believe it’s important for women to follow their intuition. If something feels off, pay close attention to that message. Trust yourself. Be empowered to seek out information, and don’t be afraid to ask the hard questions. Look at the situation from all angles. Then, base your decision on all the information that you have at that time. Don't marinate in the "would-a, should-a, could-a."  Find out what works for you. Be honest with your doctors and care team about your lifestyle and things you may be doing that fall outside of your prescribed treatment plan. In order for your doctors to help you, they need to be informed as well. There will be a lot of advice coming from all directions: your family, friends, coworkers, church, the Internet and medical professionals. Be proactive, selective and in charge. This is your treatment.

My husband, Nick, was by my side the entire journey, and he was an amazing caregiver for me. He took on additional responsibilities and continued to care for our two beautiful children while I was going through treatment. I am so glad that I have gone through the tunnel and I can see the sunlight on the other side. My family is my whole world, and I am grateful that I get to continue sharing this life with them.

Because of CTCA, I am able to continue doing the things that I love: cooking, eating and traveling, spending time with my loves, Margaux and Whittaker, and growing old with Nick.

About 12 years ago, I had to have a chest x-ray for reasons unrelated to cancer. The radiologist who reviewed the x-ray contacted my primary care physician because there was a nodule on my thyroid. My physician scheduled me for an ultrasound and a needle biopsy.

At that time, the nodule was benign and did not pose a concern. I knew it should be monitored, but I thought that any abnormalities would reveal themselves in annual blood tests. My thyroid levels are always checked as part of routine blood work, so I thought that as long as I was diligent about having my annual physical, any noteworthy changes would be caught.

Years later, a work colleague mentioned that she was having thyroid problems. As she explained what was going on, it was like a red flag went up in my mind. I thought that although my nodule was benign and nothing abnormal had turned up in my blood tests over the years, I should probably have my thyroid checked just to be prudent.

I scheduled a needle biopsy and received the diagnosis soon after: I had papillary thyroid cancer. The news was devastating.

My husband Mike and I agreed that we wanted to seek treatment at a cancer hospital. To us, it made sense to go somewhere with that dedicated focus. We had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and we decided to call. Mike spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist and I was soon scheduled to meet with Dr. Brad Mons, an oncologist at CTCA® who specializes in head and neck cancer surgery and microvascular reconstruction.

Dr. Mons provided me with several options, an approach that provided me with immediate relief. Right away, I felt that I was part of my own care and that I was in control of my life and health. The fact that Dr. Mons is kind and soft-spoken added to that relief. He had a calming presence from the moment he walked in the exam room door.

The options presented to me included a thyroidectomy, removing the thyroid glands. Dr. Mons explained the anatomical considerations, describing the nerve that runs next to the thyroid and goes to the voice box. I asked Dr. Mons if there was a way to remove the cancer while protecting that nerve.

I was very concerned about my vocal chords, especially because I love to sing. Mike and I were in a band together years ago and I now sing in my church choir. I love to go out with family and friends, and we enjoy hosting karaoke nights in our home in Oklahoma. Dr. Mons told me that he could use a neural monitor for my vocal chords to ensure that they were not being damaged by the surgery. 

After the surgery was finished, Dr. Mons was the first person to tell Mike how the procedure had gone. Soon after, when Dr. Mons had the results of my follow-up tests, he called our home. I’ll never forget that call. “Hi Lori, this is Brad,” he said. “We got the results and everything looks good.” I could hear the happiness in his voice. He was thrilled to be giving me this good news, and I was thrilled to be hearing it. Dr. Mons checks my thyroid levels every few months. More than a year after surgery, my tests show no visible signs of cancer.

I feel just as lively and energetic as I did before the diagnosis. I am happy to say that I’m back to singing in my church choir, enjoy working full-time at my job with a regional oil company, love painting, traveling, being outdoors, and best of all…spending time with our grandchildren.

My family and desire to get back to life kept me motivated during my experience with cancer. My husband gave me all the support and love I could ask for. Dr. Mons provided the expert care that I needed.

Several years ago, I began having back pain. I tried chiropractic treatments, but there was no noticeable improvement, and by Christmas of 2011, just sitting in a chair was quite painful. Finally, I went to my family doctor who took an x-ray and diagnosed me with degenerative disc disease. One month later, I saw another doctor, who prescribed pain medication. Upon asking if physical therapy would be a good option for me, the doctor agreed that I should try it. After working a short while with the physical therapist, she said, “I don’t think your symptoms are caused by degenerative disc disease.”

Within a few weeks, I could no longer sit in my car for more than 15 minutes. One morning, I woke up with excruciating pain. I was sweating and vomiting, so I went to yet another doctor that afternoon. He asked me when my last Pap smear had been, and as I was 57 at the time, I said it had been a few years back. He wanted to do a CT scan to rule out appendicitis. Arranging for the scan took some time, and when it was finally done and interpreted, I received the correct diagnosis on April 26, 2012: endometrial cancer. They sent me immediately to the hospital, where the doctor informed me that my cancer was Stage IV, the most advanced.

Strangely, I wasn’t very worried. I just thought, “They’re doctors, they’ll fix it.” A few more weeks passed, by which point my pain had worsened and I could no longer sit up. I began radiation therapy, and a month later, in June, I had a full hysterectomy. One week later I was told that the cancer had metastasized into my lungs and bones.

Throughout this whole time, a friend of mine was strongly urging me to contact Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I decided there was no harm in having a second opinion.  My husband Rusty and I called an Oncology Information Specialist who helped us understand our insurance benefits and coverage. In addition, the Travel department at CTCA® assisted with necessary arrangements. So after my surgery and before starting chemo, I headed off to CTCA in suburban Chicago.

Rusty and I arrived at CTCA in early July 2012, only two days after our 37th wedding anniversary. The moment we walked through those doors, I knew I was staying.

I began five months of chemotherapy. Thanks to CTCA and the excellent integrative treatment I received, I felt surprisingly well through most of it, experiencing no nausea. My naturopathic oncology provider was there every step of the way, keeping her finger right on the pulse. Whenever my course of chemotherapy was changed, my other treatments were modified as needed. However, I was in the battle for my life, and my cancer, which had multiple tumors, was difficult and aggressive, fighting fiercely. Throughout the next few years, I was on a number of chemotherapy regimens. It seemed to me that the treatments would work for a while, and then I’d hear that I was showing signs of progression in the cancer, which would lead to other treatments and medication.

Beginning in June of 2014, I felt well again for nearly half a year. Then, that August, I began experiencing back pain and went to the local ER. To help relieve the pain and assist with cancer treatment, my CTCA gynecologic oncologist agreed that I could undergo radiation at a hospital close to my home. When I felt well enough to travel, I returned to CTCA for additional chemotherapy. Two months later, I learned from my doctors that they saw signs of suspicious activity in the pelvic node. My cancer was continuing to fight aggressively.

At this point, it seemed obvious to me (and to my physicians) that I was not responding well to treatment and my options were dwindling. My gynecologic oncologist suggested that I undergo genomic testing. As I learned, genomic testing looks for specific genetic abnormalities in a tumor and with gene-mapping tests, and may open the door to additional treatment options targeted to a patient’s specific cancer. My doctor explained to me that my test came back showing that I might benefit from a targeted therapy. My understanding is that the way my cancer was acting and with my specific genetic mutation, it might respond better to this treatment that is used for some kidney cancers, even though I have endometrial cancer. That same month, I started the new targeted therapy and I saw an improvement.

Thanks to CTCA, for nearly two and a half years, I have felt I am living nearly pain-free. Sometimes I get a little muscle pain, but not in my back. I feel great, with no fatigue.

Unfortunately, this August (2017), I learned that the cancer has learned to outsmart the targeted therapy. My team has recommended five weeks of radiation, which I will begin shortly. Should radiation not help, my team believes that they have another back-up plan. While it may not always be easy, I am able to live with my cancer and have a relatively normal life.

Whenever I talk with someone who’s been diagnosed with cancer, I strongly encourage them to go to CTCA. Each time I go to CTCA, it’s like coming home. CTCA is truly an incredible place. They have taken all the worry out of everything for me and go the extra mile to accommodate you.

I was 66 years old when I began having difficulty breathing through my nose. It was summertime, so I thought that allergies were probably the cause. But that autumn I took a trip and experienced a massive nose bleed during the flight. I am a registered nurse and I was concerned about this occurrence.

The stuffiness was interfering with my running. I started running marathons at age 50, and have completed 29 since then. I love running, and this breathing issue was interfering with one of my favorite activities. It was also interfering with my sleep, another favorite activity. I had a problem and it needed to be solved, and the treatment so far hadn’t achieved that result. My primary care physician ordered a computed tomography scan.

The scan showed that my sinuses on the left side were completely occluded. I had surgery to remove the fluid and went home the same day. But when my doctor received the pathology report the following Monday, he called me in tears. “Marg, I never would have suspected this,” I recall him saying, “but you have cancer.”

After receiving the diagnosis, I started investigating treatment options. I met with specialists and various surgeons. One radiation oncologist went into great detail about the side effects of radiation, alerting me that my teeth could fall out or I could go blind. I felt completely disillusioned and discouraged. Nothing felt right.

I worked at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in Tulsa from 1995 to 2001, and decided to seek a second opinion there. The surgeon who had diagnosed the cancer had actually suggested that I speak with Dr. Bradley Mons, an otolaryngologist at CTCA® who focuses on head, neck and microvascular reconstructive surgery. In other words, his specialty is on the surgical removal of cancer from the head and neck and the accompanying reconstructive surgery to repair the area afterwards. I was still very much in problem-solving mode, and I made an appointment with Dr. Mons.

From the start, Dr. Mons was kind and compassionate, and his knowledge and expertise inspired my confidence. He knew that I was a nurse who had worked with cancer patients, but he did not assume that I understood everything. He took the time to explain my diagnosis and his recommended treatment.

Dr. Mons suggested that I undergo a partial maxillectomy, a form of open surgery. The operation involved removing sinuses and part of my upper jaw in order to take out the tumor. He described to me exactly how the procedure would go. He would make an incision from the top of my nose to the bottom, and then across my cheek to create an open flap. He would clear out all the cancer from my sinuses, including any malignant areas in the interior of my nose.

I asked how he would be sure if all the cancer was removed during the procedure; how would he know that the margins were clear? I wanted to be sure that he would verify this during the surgery so that I would not need to go through it again. Dr. Mons explained to me that conducting this type of pathology study during the operation was his desired approach. He would look at my tissue under a microscope right away. He would also do the reconstructive portion of the surgery at the same time. Dr. Mons has expertise in microvascular reconstruction, the reconnecting of blood vessels that are three to four millimeters in size using a suture that is thinner than a hair.

Once Dr. Mons explained his approach, I knew that all would be well. My sole objective was to return to my lifestyle. “I’ll do my best to help you do that,” he told me.

After the surgery was complete, Dr. Mons told me that the margins were clear. He has continued to do endoscopic exams every month since my procedure, and the margins have continued to be clear. He warned me that the two-year mark was a common time for recurrence. Fortunately, I made it past that hurdle with no signs of cancer.

I am back to running and the life I was living prior to my cancer diagnosis. I love my work, and next year, I will climb the Grand Canyon to celebrate my 70th birthday.

I am extremely thankful for the support and love my family has given me. My husband, John, has been with me at every visit to CTCA. My children have also been supportive through this journey. I have so much to live for, and am planning to be around for a very long time.

Now I know that cancer was never the end of the road. We all face challenges in life but we also all have to get up each day and realize that we each have our own purpose to discover.

I was diagnosed with prostate cancer in October 2014. I was in complete shock. Our younger son had just graduated from high school, and my wife, Deb, and I were working very hard at our businesses. I wasn’t sure how this diagnosis would affect us. I took my time deciding on a course of action. Even though the diagnosis was clear, I also understood that my prostate specific antigen (PSA) count was low, an indicator that I could wait a bit before starting treatment. In researching various options, I came across the website for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). What I saw there piqued my interest, so I did some additional research, and eventually, Deb and I traveled to the CTCA® hospital near Chicago for a consultation in June 2015.

That first day showed me exactly the kind of care I could expect here. When I heard that I might need six to eight weeks of radiation treatment, I became overwhelmed. I started thinking about Deb having to manage our work life and home life, and all that this would entail for her and for us, and I passed out. Right away, there were people giving me not only medical attention but whole-person attention.

But it wasn’t long before the second shock. About a month after my first visit to CTCA, Deb was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or stage 0 breast cancer. She had the same diagnosis five years earlier and had been treated at the time. So here we were, husband and wife, both diagnosed with cancer at the same time.

By September 2015, it was time to take action. I chose to have a prostatectomy to surgically remove the cancer. And because I was being treated at CTCA, Deb decided that she would come there, too. Two weeks after my procedure, she had a double mastectomy. Once we were both through our procedures, we headed home for six weeks of recovery together. I wasn’t prepared for the aftermath of a prostatectomy. For a man, the changes are significant. There are sexual side effects that can take a while to heal—ones that can affect you physically and also psychologically.

While I was going through that experience, I also wanted to be supportive to Deb. As it turned out, our dual procedures helped us have more empathy for each other. We have been able to speak candidly about all that we’re going through, and to have humor together about it. Men, by their nature, often want to fix things; they want to take the pain away from their families. But this time, Deb and I were in this mess together. Whoever had the most strength at the moment could get the television remote or make the food. We got through it together, and we became stronger because of it.

I feel CTCA was supportive of my needs. The nutrition counseling we received helped transform our diets, and I was provided with many alternatives to pain medication, which I wanted to avoid if possible. They arranged our visits so that we can see our respective doctors at the same time. We never had to wait for information. If we had a question, we sent it through the online portal and received an answer promptly. I met with a survivorship support provider who made it clear that I could ask any questions I had. She reassured me that although I would not resume my normal sexual function overnight, eventually with work and the proper guidance, it should return. When a nurse noticed that I had back pain, she suggested that I check with a chiropractor before the surgery, so that the problem might be addressed before my recovery. I had a massage before the surgery too, which helped me relax. Nothing felt rote at CTCA; everything felt personal and caring.

Today (January 2017), I am still recovering from the surgery and am continuing to make progress. My PSA score indicates minor residual cancer, so my oncologist is continuing to monitor me. I have regained nearly all my normal functions, and we are back to our everyday lives.

But recovery has been about more than the physical healing. I feel like I have recovered a life that I was missing before cancer. Before my diagnosis, my greatest focus was always work. I thought I had to store up as much wealth as possible. But the truth is, there are no guarantees about our tomorrows. I need to enjoy today. With that realization and with an accompanying strengthening of faith, a great sense of peace has grown in our lives. I know God has helped us through this journey. Because of that, I have learned that a seemingly “bad” thing can be a blessing.

Deb and I are stronger than ever. We have learned so much about each other and our marriage. Truly, it feels like nothing can ever come between us.

Throughout it all, CTCA has been a rock for us. The care has been outstanding, and I feel so fortunate that if this had to happen, if Deb and I had to make this journey together, that we could do so at CTCA.

I was diagnosed with carcino-sarcoma of the uterus, a rare type of uterine cancer, when I was 58 years old. At the time, I was done with menopause, so I was surprised when I noticed some spotting. Because I was training heavily for two triathlon races, I was consuming a lot of soy, and I thought that perhaps the unusually high estrogen intake (soy contains estrogen) was somehow responsible for the problems.

As I continued training, I was feeling miserable. My swim times were becoming slower. I knew something was wrong, but never suspected cancer (oddly, I felt something in my throat, probably due to hormonal changes). I called my doctor, who referred me to a gynecologist. I had an endometrial biopsy, and then participated in a triathlon.

When I came home after the competition, the results of the endometrial biopsy had come back. I had cancer.

Fortunately, the disease was still in the early stages—stage IA at diagnosis—but rigorous treatment was needed to ensure that the cancer would not spread. I was referred to a gynecologic oncologist locally, who wanted to operate immediately. I was interested in robotic surgery because it is less invasive; I wanted to be in the best shape possible to handle the chemotherapy that would follow surgery. So I went to a second clinic in my area, where I was able to have robotic surgery.

After that procedure, however, the care I was receiving was unsatisfactory, and I decided to look for another place where I could receive the chemotherapy portion of my treatment. I was seeing a naturopathic clinician to help prepare for chemotherapy, and she recommended that I call Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). The timings were tight because chemotherapy needed to begin within six weeks of the surgery.

After I decided to be treated at CTCA, my oncologist there called experts across the country to consult about my treatment. That approach gave me such peace of mind. When you have a rare, difficult-to-treat cancer, you want a doctor who is going to take whatever time is needed to find out the best treatment approach.

My decision to be treated at CTCA was also influenced by the availability of naturopathic medicine. These complementary approaches can help lessen the side effects of treatment. Chemotherapy can be brutal, and having ready access to a naturopathic clinician, as CTCA provides, was a huge benefit. In the day or so following each chemotherapy treatment, I usually felt terrible. But I would try to get to the gym to exercise, and then by the following weekend, I was riding by bike, feeling as if I’d never even had chemotherapy.

The staff at CTCA was incredibly supportive. They were aware of my dedication to physical fitness. I work as a fitness director at a retirement community and am a triathlete. The staff knew about this, and offered to rent a bicycle for me to use when I was at the facility for treatment. They were invested in me and in my care.

When you are coping with a cancer diagnosis, you cannot get hung up on wondering why this is happening. You have to be proactive. Cancer can be a death sentence, but you have to get past that and find out where the best place is to get treated. For me, that place was CTCA.

My last treatment was in January of 2013. I celebrated my 60th birthday recently, and am training for a big race. I completed my fastest triathlon after finishing my treatment. I know that the care I received at CTCA has contributed greatly to my recovery and continued health. 

In June of 2007, when I was in my late 40s, I had a routine colonoscopy at a clinic near our home in Lansing, Michigan. I had been having some issues and was hoping the gastroenterologist doing the procedure would be able to shed some light. When I woke up after the colonoscopy, my wife was there. Because I had instructed the doctor to call her only if he found anything problematic during the procedure, I knew something was wrong. He told me that he found a mass, and based on his experience, he was fairly certain it was cancerous. He had scheduled me for a consultation with a surgeon.

A few days later I had an online chat with an Oncology Information Specialist (OIS) from Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). My wife joined the conversation, too, and we both found the OIS representative to be understanding, knowledgeable about what CTCA® offers, helpful and considerate, even through Internet messaging.

The conversation with her clued me in to the care I would receive at CTCA. I wouldn’t be “a number,” I would be given the level of attention that anyone with a cancer diagnosis wants. Within a few days, we flew to the CTCA location in Zion, Illinois for a first appointment.

That first appointment landed on the July 4th holiday, and before I left, I knew I wanted to begin treatment there as soon as possible. My surgeon explained that chemotherapy and radiation was needed prior to surgery to shrink the tumor. My response was, “When can we start?”

Within a couple of weeks, I began treatment under the care and guidance of my medical oncologist. She was by my side throughout my journey, and I am grateful for every minute of that.

My care team extended to several additional individuals. My gastroenterologist provided medical care, and spiritual support services strengthened me. My mind-body therapist advised me about measures I could take to help my recovery, and my dietitian provided guidance on nutritional changes that would help me better tolerate treatment and regain my strength. So many people at CTCA, from the cafeteria staff to my surgeon, were part of my experience at CTCA.

Today, I am still inspired by my experience at CTCA, and often speak with others about it. Returning to CTCA for follow-up visits can be stressful. It’s impossible to not feel some anxiety about what the test results may show. But talking with others about our experience at CTCA always helps calm me down.

I have completed treatment, and my energy has returned almost completely. I feel that I have been given a second chance at life, and I intend to live every minute the best way I can.

I was in my mid-30s when my wife, Kathleen, and I began noticing that I was often exhausted. It seemed that all I did at home was eat and sleep. But we had a 1-year-old and an infant at the time, and I was working 12 hours or more each day on our farm—naturally, we assumed these were the reasons I was tired. Who wouldn’t be?

But one day in the summer of 2012, during a family outing to the zoo, I ran across the parking lot to get the car and almost passed out. I told Kathleen on our way home and wondered if I should see the doctor. She was adamant in her response: Yes, it was time to see a doctor.

Our primary care physician near our home in northeastern Kansas told me that my red blood cell count was so low that I needed a transfusion. I went to our local hospital for the transfusion, and subsequent tests soon showed that I was losing blood though my gastrointestinal tract. I needed a colonoscopy and possibly also an endoscopy to diagnose the problem.

I went for the colonoscopy at a nearby clinic as soon as possible. During that test, the problem was immediately clear: There was a tumor in my colon. The diagnosis was a shock. I had been healthy my whole life. I was in good shape and maintained an active lifestyle. But I knew that I could not get too caught up wondering why this was happening. What was needed now was to get treated.

The diagnosis was made on a Tuesday, and later that week, Kathleen and I met with an oncologist and a surgeon locally. But that weekend, we happened to speak with the doctor, now retired, who had delivered our first two children. He encouraged us to get a second opinion, and mentioned Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) as one option to explore.

My surgery was scheduled already, but we heeded the advice. We looked at the CTCA® website and then called. Speaking with a representative from CTCA was enough to make me want to travel to Chicago. I liked what we were told about the approach to cancer care at CTCA. We changed our minds about having the surgery locally, and later the next week flew to Illinois for a consultation at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in Zion.

Once we arrived, our impression of CTCA matched what we’d thought after the phone call. A schedule for our few days there had been prepared, and a nurse navigator met us almost as soon as we stepped in the door.

After reviewing my diagnostic scans and colonoscopy results, my surgeon told us that surgery would be his recommended approach, and that after the procedure, he and the other doctors on my team could determine if additional treatment was needed. He then told us he could do the surgery that Monday if I wanted. After talking it over, Kathleen and I both responded yes.

As planned, I had the surgery that next Monday. During the procedure, my surgeon saw that the tumor had grown through the colon wall. He could see at that point that I needed a more intensive surgery than the laparoscopic procedure he had planned on. I was under anesthesia, of course, but my surgeon informed Kathleen that the team needed to change course. When I was awake, he explained to me what he needed to do. He proposed that I undergo the HIPEC procedure, which stands for hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy. With this approach, heated chemotherapy is pumped through the abdomen during surgery to reach any microscopic cells that normal chemotherapy may not reach. My surgeon has extensive experience with this approach, and indeed he was able to remove all visible signs of cancer during the procedure.

The surgery was in mid-August, and that October, I began chemotherapy, which entailed an infusion every three weeks for eight rounds. Although I could have received the chemotherapy near our home, under the supervision of CTCA, Kathleen and I decided to continue treatment in Chicago. We were both so comfortable there, and preferred to travel for the kind of care I was receiving.

I did have some side effects from chemotherapy. In particular, I had some soreness and sensitivity in my hands and feet. My care team knew which drug was causing this side effect, so they adjusted the dose to a manageable level so that I would not be in pain.

The care team continued to work together throughout my treatment to ensure that I was comfortable and that all my individual needs were being met. The doctors talk with one another, they work together every day, all in the same building, and this approach has a huge impact on the care that patients receive.

After my first surgery, I was in the hospital for 26 days. I was told that the normal recovery time is 10 to 14 days, but a complication prolonged my recovery time. Kathleen was there with our infant the entire duration, and they were both treated so well. The hotel rate was reduced, and they could have meals at the CTCA cafeteria. All our external concerns were taken care of, and all I had to do was focus on getting better.

Then, about a week after completing chemotherapy, I had a major setback. Some scar tissue was causing a bowel obstruction, and I needed another surgery. Although a surgeon in my hometown was willing to perform the surgery under the guidance of my surgeon at CTCA, there was a concern that side effects from one of my chemo drugs would complicate surgery. Because of the seriousness of the situation and our confidence in my care team, we really wanted to get back to CTCA. A local business owner who had a plane offered to fly us—Kathleen, me and two of our children—to Chicago.

I had the surgery and remained in the hospital for about two months. My bowel had perforated, but the surgery was a success. As a bonus, my surgeon was able to confirm during that procedure that there was no visible cancer.

This surgery and hospital stay was the most difficult time for me. I couldn’t eat, my weight dropped, and I felt very weak. But my dietitian looked after me so carefully. I am recovered now, back to where I was before all this began. I went to CTCA every four to six months for three years and now only once a year. Thankfully, there is still no evidence of disease.

We are so thankful to God for taking care of me and my family. These days, all the significant moments in life feel just a little more special. I wanted to make a full recovery so that I could be here to take care of my family. In April 2015, God chose to bless us by adding another baby to our family, and my wife gave birth to Halle Joy. Halle means “unexpected gift,” and we are so thankful for her! We have six children, and I want to be here to support them. It has been wonderful to witness the many birthdays of my children since my diagnosis, and I look forward to celebrating more with them. My wife and family supported me through this hard time, and with their care along with the care provided by CTCA, I can now be here for them. I am so thankful God led us to CTCA!

I was 29 years old when I was diagnosed with breast cancer in March 2014. My husband and I were still newlyweds, filled with plans for our long life together. The first time I suspected something wasn’t right was two years earlier, when I felt a lump on my right breast. My gynecologist ordered an ultrasound, but the test results were normal. A year later, I told my gynecologist that the lump was still there and new ones had appeared.  She ordered a second ultrasound, which also came back normal. I remember her reassuring me that there was nothing wrong and that my dense breasts were normal for my age. I wanted to believe that my breasts felt normal, but I knew something wasn’t right. This was not normal to me. 

The third time I saw my gynecologist after the first lump appeared, I had more symptoms to report. There was a dark spot on my areola. There was crustiness and discharge from my nipple. I had sharp, shooting pains in my chest. There was no way all this was normal. I asked to be tested with something other than an ultrasound, and she ordered an MRI, a test that was more likely than a mammogram to be covered by my insurance and reveal any cancer present in my breasts.

As I lay in the MRI machine, I felt oddly calm. I had a sense of relief knowing that today I would have the answers I had been searching for. I would finally have a solid diagnosis. When the radiologist told me that I needed an urgent mammogram, an urgent ultrasound and an urgent biopsy, that sense of calm disappeared. I knew that what I’d been suspecting for months was about to become a reality.

After several sleepless nights, I had a biopsy. The results revealed that I had Her2-positive breast cancer as well as Paget’s disease of the breast. And even though I’d been concerned about that first lump in my breast for nearly two years at that point, I was entirely unprepared for the shock of the diagnosis. My heart raced, and the tears streamed down my face. My husband held me close to him as tears streamed down his face, too. Later that day, we told our families.

My father-in-law, who lives in Phoenix, Arizona, suggested that I call Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), which I did. The first call was encouraging, and the paperwork process that followed was fast and easy. Next thing I knew, we were at the hospital for an initial consultation. As we toured the facility, I saw people smiling and hugging one another. Had I walked into a hospital or a resort? I wasn’t entirely sure. Our tour guide was very informative and was also a cancer survivor who spoke to me about his personal experience. I felt so calm and reassured standing in the hospital. My eyes filled with tears again, but this time, they were tears of hope and peace. I knew that I had come to the right place.

Because the cancer had spread throughout my right breast, I decided to have a double mastectomy. I wanted to reduce my chances of getting breast cancer in my left breast, and I wanted the cancerous breast tissue out. During the procedure, the surgeon found cancer in my sentinel lymph nodes, and he performed a second surgery to remove lymph nodes from my right armpit. Thankfully, a PET scan showed that the malignancy had not spread to other areas of my body.

After recovering from the surgery, I received six chemotherapy treatments, and then seven weeks of radiation. After these were completed, I began a yearlong treatment with trastuzumab, a monoclonal antibody specifically targeted for Her2-positive breast cancer.

My experience at CTCA® was consistently empowering. I was part of the decision-making process at every step of the way. My Care Team was exactly that—a team of caring people—and I made lifelong friends with patients and employees. My naturopathic oncology provider and my clinical oncology dietitian helped me manage and prevent side effects, taught me how to shop for and cook healthier foods, and recommended supplements to take during and after treatment to help my recovery. I took full advantage of all the integrative services offered at the hospital, including acupuncture, chiropractic care, lymphatic drainage massage, pastoral support, physical therapy and occupational therapy. I also joined the Cancer Fighters Care Network so that I could lend support to others coping with a cancer diagnosis. In short, CTCA helped me transition from feeling like a victim to becoming a fighter, a survivor and a health care advocate.

I was raised to know that love is unconditional. This is how I feel about my journey with cancer. My husband and I had been married for just eight months when I was diagnosed, and he stood by my side and walked with me every step of the way. At first, it was hard to admit I needed help and to be vulnerable with him. Once I let go, and let him take care of me, our relationship deepened in ways I could have never imagined. When I lost my hair and my breasts, I felt unattractive. But he showed me unconditional love and made me feel beautiful inside and out. True beauty lies in who you are, not what you look like.  Our parents, siblings, nieces and nephews, friends and family—everyone came together to help in any way they could.

My coworkers and students knew about my diagnosis—I was completely open about it—and they saw me at my most vulnerable state, too. They encouraged me, wrote letters, sent gifts, and constantly lifted me up. Coworkers donated days of their own time so that I could continue being paid while taking time off through the Family Medical Leave Act. They donated the maximum—60 days of paid leave—which was a gift that I can never repay them for.

Going through cancer and its treatment has changed me forever. Never again will I be a victim of circumstance. Instead, I will choose to have hope, have faith and seek support. I will continue to build my relationship with God, and also with my loved ones.

This disease gave me a better perspective on what matters (and what doesn’t), and a renewed appreciation for the people in my life. It also showed me what true health care really is, or can be. At CTCA, I received not only hope and encouragement, but also sophisticated medical care that brought me back to life. I received expert treatment at every step of the way, and continue to do so now as I return for follow-up visits.

And now the plea. Cancer doesn’t discriminate. It can affect anyone at any age, of any ethnicity, of any education level and economic status. We all need to be proactive about our health. We need to take control, eliminate unhealthy habits from our lives, and listen to our bodies.

And we need to live each day like it’s our last, and not wait for a near-tragedy to wake us up from an aimless walk through life. Yesterday is gone, tomorrow may not come, but value today, and make each day count. Use your talents and gifts to help others, train your mind to focus on what is important, and love each other with all your heart. That is what I’m trying to do.

I was first diagnosed in 2001 at the age of 49 with breast cancer after I felt a lump in my breast. I was having troubles with my menstrual cycle and had been on hormone replacement therapy. It was after starting this medication that I found the lump. I had a fibrocystic breast, so the initial assumption was that it was a cyst, but my OB/GYN referred me to a cancer specialist. A biopsy confirmed that I had breast cancer in my left breast. I was told it was invasive lobular carcinoma, ER-positive, PR-negative, HER2-positive When the doctor told me I had cancer, I could see his lips moving, but I couldn’t hear anything else. I kept thinking about my children—how would I survive this and what would I tell them?

After picking myself up, I underwent a lumpectomy, and 15 axillary lymph nodes were removed. I learned the cancer was stage I. After the surgery, I began 10 weeks of radiation and started taking a hormone therapy. 

Life went on. I continued to work and enjoy spending time with my family. Then, during a self-breast exam, I discovered another lump in the same breast. In November 2006, I found out I had my first cancer recurrence. This time, the cancer was stage II. I was treated with another hormone therapy for another year.

Again in 2007, I had another recurrence. This time, I had a mastectomy in my left breast and a reconstruction. At this point, I felt like I was in a maze. The cancer type was changing, and I was told it was now ER-negative, PR-negative, HER2-positive. While recovering from the surgery, I found myself watching a Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) program on television. I was interested in learning more about its cancer treatment options and whole-person care. The next morning, I woke up and called. I talked to an Oncology Information Specialist at CTCA®, and then went for a consultation at the CTCA hospital outside Chicago.

I met my medical oncologist at CTCA, and he provided me with a lot of information about what I needed to know about my cancer. I also read and learned everything I could about breast cancer because I believe knowledge is power. Because CTCA and I agreed with a treatment plan, I returned home to have chemotherapy and a monoclonal antibody, which I understand is a pill that helps the immune system fight the cancer.

My third recurrence was diagnosed in 2009. Again, I found the cancer in the same breast through a self-examination. I understood that the cancer was now ER-positive, PR-negative, HER2-positive. I was also tested for the BRCA mutation and learned it was negative. With everything I had gone through up until this point, I felt relieved knowing that I didn’t pass the mutation down to my children. This time, I had chemotherapy at CTCA, and then returned home for radiation. I also continued with the monoclonal antibody and added in hormone therapy again.

Yet another self-breast exam revealed my fourth recurrence. A biopsy in 2013 showed that the cancer was now ER-positive, PR-negative, HER2-positive. I again stayed local and had a mastectomy on my left breast with reconstruction and nipple-sparing surgery. I continued to take hormone therapy for treatment.

In March 2015, I found another lump in my left breast. This time, a biopsy showed the cancer was ER-negative, PR, HER2-positive. I was told the cancer was stage III this time. At this point, I felt that if God pulled me through cancer four times, he would do it again. I put my faith in Him. This time, I chose to continue my care exclusively at CTCA.

During my first visit back, I was struck by how my care team at CTCA focused not only on the cancer, but also on my overall health and well-being. I met with my naturopathic oncology provider, dietitian and pastor, along with the rest of my care team. I felt well supported.

In 2015, I began treatment at CTCA, and my oncologist found that the tumor was no longer responding to the hormone therapy. He started me on a HER2-targeted treatment. I understand that it is made up of two cancer-fighting drugs, including a monoclonal antibody and a chemotherapy drug. I was told that the FDA had approved the drug in 2013 and CTCA was involved in the research. I started taking it in April of 2015, and at my next scans, my oncologist told me my tumor was shrinking. Recent tests in 2017 show  while I am still continuing the drug, returning to CTCA every three weeks.

Over the past years, I feel have been able to get through this journey with cancer because of my faith and my support from family and friends. Through this process, I have continued working in the banking industry. My employer has been very supportive and allows me to take the time off that I need for treatment. I look forward to retiring later this year after being in the banking business for over 30 years.

Cancer has shown me what is important in life, and the people who are most important to me. Not only have I been afflicted with cancer, but I have also lost my aunt, the dearest person to me other than my mother, to breast cancer in 2017 after her battle with two recurrences. Cancer has changed my life, and my priorities have changed for the better. Right now, I am focusing on giving back to others. I am part of the CTCA Cancer Fighters® Care Net team, helping other cancer patients find comfort, support and hope. I also participate in cancer non-profits, most recently with “Knocking out Breast Cancer,” an event sponsored by the Barbara Bates Foundation. I have been one of the models in her Chicago fashion show two years in a row, helping to raise money and awareness.

When people read my story, I don’t want them to see despair in the amount of recurrences I have had. Instead, I want to deliver a message of self-awareness and hope. I feel blessed to be able to share my story, and hope it will inspire other women to perform regular self-breast examinations and go for annual mammograms. My life has been a roller coaster, but I have never given up due to the support of my friends, family and team at CTCA.

I didn’t think much about the lump on my left breast the first time I noticed it. I just figured, well, it’s a breast, you feel abnormalities now and then due to hormone fluctuations. I thought it would go away on its own.

A couple of weeks later, though, the lump was still there, and it felt very tender. The lump was painful. My doctor advised me to have a mammogram and an ultrasound. Later that night, my doctor called me at home. “We see something there,” I remember her saying. The next step was a biopsy.

About three weeks later, I had the biopsy. Although the pathology report would take a little while to be returned, she had seen enough cancer in her life to know what she was seeing. She told me that I had breast cancer. I was 35 years old at the time.

Strangely I wasn’t too shocked at that moment. I wasn’t nervous or afraid. Really what I felt was a desire to know everything. I wanted to know my options. I wanted to know everything about the cancer. Later I started to worry, but my first feeling was a desire to have as much information as possible about my diagnosis. 

I met with an oncologist who my doctor had referred me to, and also with a radiologist. After a couple of weeks, my oncologist recommended that I begin chemotherapy.

The first two rounds of chemotherapy came with severe side effects. I had nausea and vomiting, and was extremely tired. I also lost my sense of taste. Lying awake one night, I saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and I called my mother to tell her about it. “I think I want to try to go here,” I told her. I was hesitant to call. But my mother told me the words I needed to hear: “Just call.”

I heeded my mother’s advice. There was nothing to lose by calling, and as it turned out, there was a lot to gain.

My initial consultation visit at the CTCA® location in Newnan, Georgia, was scheduled near to the time that my third round of chemotherapy was due. That way, if I wanted to be treated at CTCA, I could just stay and have the treatment. When I arrived at CTCA, I knew right away that I would be staying.

From the first moment, the experience was uplifting. The driver who greeted me at the airport was kind. When I arrived at the hospital, I was greeted with smiles and warmth. I met other patients and caregivers, and these connections became a source of strength. Everything was taken care of, everything was provided for me.

My Care Team developed a recommendation that was individualized for me. I completed four rounds of chemotherapy with taxotere and had a mastectomy afterwards. During surgery some of my lymph nodes were biopsied, and these tested positive for cancer. So after healing from the procedure, I had an additional two rounds of chemotherapy. Four weeks after completing that treatment, I underwent a month of radiation therapy. That was in December and for this stage of the treatment I stayed at CTCA, though I did travel home for Christmas.

After the first two rounds of chemotherapy and the nausea and vomiting I experienced, I was scared to have the next one. I was scheduled to fly home from CTCA the following day, and I remember thinking that there was no way I would be able to handle the traveling. But I didn’t have severe side effects at all. There were days when I felt nauseous, but it was mild and I could tolerate some foods. My Care Team helped me manage the treatment. They recommended dietary changes and focused on natural approaches. If I lost my appetite or my sense of taste, they had suggestions for things to try to alleviate those problems.

For me, one of the most significant aspects of CTCA was the positivity. When you are going through a difficult time, it helps so much to see positivity around you. Being around happy people helps you feel happier. At CTCA, I saw positivity and it helped me heal.

When a person is diagnosed with cancer, the only thing to do is to go through it. You can’t avoid it, even though you didn’t cause it yourself. We all want to be strong when faced with life’s challenges, but sometimes that strength is hard to access. I wanted to be strong for my children, I didn’t want them to see me feeling weak, but I couldn’t always rise to the occasion.

At CTCA, I never felt alone. My doctors truly cared for me. My physical therapist, Kelly, who helped address some issues I experienced after surgery, still texts and calls me to see how I am and just to say hello. I was given all the information that I needed in order to make decisions about my care. I trust my doctors at CTCA, but also wanted to understand what was happening and they made that possible.

After going through cancer treatment, I embrace life so much more. Each birthday is so much more than just a birthday, it’s another year of life. I celebrate life. I do the things I was once afraid to do. I don’t procrastinate and I don’t stop myself from pursuing what I want for silly reasons.

My children are what got me through. I want to be here for them and for my baby grandson. Cancer wasn’t a death sentence for me, it was a wake-up call. And CTCA helped me face each day and get to the other side.

I was diagnosed with prostate cancer in April 2007, just before my 51st birthday. I underwent surgery in July. I returned to work, but a week later I was having difficulty with bowel movements. I went to my local hospital’s emergency room. The attending physician sent me for a colonoscopy because no one was certain why I couldn’t have a bowel movement. But the physician doing the colonoscopy could not conduct the examination; he could not insert the tube because there was a large tumor in the way. That was when I received my second cancer diagnosis of rectal cancer.

Beginning in September 2007, I received treatment with chemotherapy and radiation therapy, and then underwent rectal surgery in January 2008. After that, I was visibly free of cancer.

Toward the end of 2011, the rectal cancer returned. I was having blood tests and diagnostic scans done quarterly, and the cancer was discovered during one of the routine examinations.

I wanted to seek treatment elsewhere, but I wasn’t certain of where to go. I called Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) one day during my lunch hour at work. I needed to return to work before the person speaking with me had all the information she needed. She asked if she could call me back that night, and we agreed to speak at 8 p.m. I figured she would forget, but at 8:02 p.m., the phone rang. By that time, she had looked into my insurance and all other matters, and was ready to schedule me for a visit for an initial consultation.

In early 2012, I began treatment at CTCA. I received chemotherapy and radiation therapy. A year and a half after the recurrence, a PET scan showed no visible signs of cancer. There is some scar tissue, but it’s minimal.

I work in customer service, and am well aware that this aspect of a business makes all the difference. It matters how a customer is treated. Every hospital where cancer is treated offers chemotherapy, but the way in which patients are treated—not just the cancer—can have a significant impact on well-being and recovery. Having a nutritionist and a naturopath on your care team also matters. You may not take advantage of these services, but they are available at CTCA if you want them.

There was a time when a surgery scheduled for me at CTCA was cancelled unexpectedly. I was concerned about my care, but when I mentioned this to my care team, they made it right. I was impressed.

The accommodations during my care were also wonderful. Even though we don’t live too far away, my wife and I were able to stay at the Hope Lodge near the hospital, which really helped.

Six years after I was first diagnosed with cancer (the first of two cancers), I am feeling well. I have been wearing a colostomy bag for five years, but I’m used to it now. It doesn’t really impact my life in a negative way.

I met my second wife in 2007, just before I was diagnosed with prostate cancer. We married in 2009, and she has been with me as a caregiver through all of this. She was there for me.

As a cancer patient, I would say to caregivers the best things you can do are be there for your loved one and don’t give up. That’s my message to other cancer patients too: Don’t give up. This is your life. You have to learn and be proactive. CTCA encourages this approach. The doctors speak to you on a mature level. They don’t talk to you like you are a child. When you ask questions, they answer them.

Also, we need to make sure to take responsibility for our health. Through the nutritionist I worked with at CTCA, I learned how to eat healthy and why it’s important to exercise. I’m proud of the lifestyle I’m following now, and I look forward to many healthy years ahead.

One morning while getting dressed, I noticed that my nipple was inverted. I figured it was nothing, maybe due to the position I'd slept in, and went on with my day. That night, the inversion was still there and I knew something wasn't right.

I contacted my gynecologist and was given an appointment four weeks away. My best friend, who is a nurse, told me to call back and say it's an emergency. I was at the office a few days later getting a mammogram. I’d had my annual mammogram earlier that year, but it did not reveal any potential cancer at that time. I’d also had a biopsy of a suspected breast tumor many years prior that came back benign, but I never considered the possibility that cancer could develop later in my life.

Following the mammogram, the doctor ordered a biopsy because she saw something from my test that concerned her. A few days later I received the phone call informing me that I had breast cancer. I was 45 years old at the time.

In addition to my actual mother, there are two other women in my life who are like mothers to me. My second “mom,” who has known me since high school, knows a lot about health and wellness, so she was the first person I called after being diagnosed. She warned me about one of the regional hospitals near my home in Delaware, and encouraged me to call Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA).

I have learned that many people come to CTCA for a second opinion, and then opt to stay. For me, CTCA was my first, and only, choice. From the start, I knew it was a good match for me. The integrative approach to treatment, in particular, meshed with my own point of view about health and quality of life. I appreciated the fact that my care team looked at me as a whole person, not as a disease.

My treatment consisted of a lumpectomy followed by a re-excsion with IORT to remove additional tissues and, finally, chemotherapy. I continued to work during this time, driving to CTCA before or after the workday.

The side effects I experienced were mostly minimal, but chemotherapy did decrease my white blood cell count. I had two medications to help boost the white blood cell count, one of which I needed to self-inject at home. I was resistant because I’m uncomfortable with needles. I told my oncologist that I had no idea how I was going to get through this. But the infusion nurse showed me how to do it and I became more confident with each injection. At first, it took me 20 minutes to get the needle in. I had to talk myself through it and play games with the clock. Over time, the process became easier. Getting through this time showed me that I could do something that I thought I couldn’t.

In general, I’m a fairly independent person, and usually the one that others come to when they need help. However, during my treatment, I learned to ask for help. My caregivers and my church family were there when I needed them—and I did need them.

My first brush with cancer was in 2009, when I felt a lump in my breast. When an ultrasound and mammogram detected no abnormality, my doctor initially dismissed my concern. He did, however, find a lump on my neck that he extracted fluid from and went ahead and extracted fluid from the area of my breast where I had felt something. A few days later, the doctor called to tell me that the lump in my breast was a cystic breast and nothing to worry about; however, the lump in my neck was thyroid cancer.

Because I was not comfortable with the answers I was receiving from my initial doctor, I went to a second doctor to be treated for my thyroid cancer. I had surgery to remove the lump in my neck, and soon after went for a mammogram.

In 2013, I had another mammogram and further testing. I had an ultrasound and my doctor saw something very clearly. A few days after the biopsy, I received a call from my doctor’s office with the diagnosis: I had breast cancer.

A few days later, I began searching online. I started chatting with a representative from Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and was surprised at how easy it was to reach a “live” person.

Following the online chat, I received a call from a representative based in Chicago. He spoke with my husband and I for more than two hours. That was on a Saturday; by Monday, my appointment was scheduled. My husband and I felt like we had answers, and we had a plan.

Although I was skeptical when we first arrived at CTCA, it was clear within a few hours how different this facility is from the others I had visited. Everyone spoke to us like adults; no one talked down to us. No one cared how many times I asked the same question.

My treatment at CTCA consisted of a double mastectomy followed by four rounds of chemotherapy and 15 radiation treatments followed by reconstructive surgery.

Looking back, I can see how scared I was going through treatment.

Fortunately, I did not experience any severe side effects. I was also worried about not being able to work during treatment. I have owned a hair salon for 15 years and was worried about losing clientele. Though I did have to cut back my hours, I was able to continue working – in fact, I was back at work days after my chemotherapy appointments. My quality of life also remained at a high level. I attribute this to the care I received at CTCA, which included nutritional support and rehabilitation.

Prior to my cancer diagnosis, I had also been pursuing my business degree. Upon starting treatment, though, my oncologist, Dr. Anita Johnson, recommended that I take a break from school because she thought I needed to slow down, at least until I finished my treatments. Although it was difficult for me to let go of my busy lifestyle, I took her advice.

My husband has also been very supportive. He was my rock! For example, he took a month off of work to come with me for my appointments, and the support he provided brought us even closer together. He praises CTCA for having all of their services under one roof. Not having to drive all over town for my appointments enabled him to better focus on me during the treatment process, and helped him be a better caregiver.

Today, I am feeling great. I’m able to work and returned to my studies. I will finish my business degree in a few months. Finally, I am slowly letting go of the anxiety I was holding onto in the aftermath of treatment.

Reflecting on my cancer journey, I can see how much the compassionate care provided at CTCA was part of my treatment and recovery. Even when I was at my lowest, everyone I encountered would look me in the eye. They didn’t look away because I was sick. The care I received made me feel like a real person. My faith was also a large contributor that helped see me through, giving me the inner strength I needed to face this challenge.

I am honored to be a volunteer with the Cancer Fighters® Care Net program. It allows me to be there for others who are coping with cancer. I am here in case someone needs to reach out, just as CTCA was there for me.

It was during December 2007 that I first realized something wasn’t quite right. I was going through a stressful period of time as my dad’s health was rapidly declining. But I chalked the symptoms I was feeling up to stress. December rolled into the New Year, and by the end of January, dad had passed away. By the time of his memorial service in March, my problems of a strange kind of constipation with diarrhea still persisted. That’s when I realized it was time to make my routine colonoscopy appointment. Up to this point, I had been one of those anti-colonoscopy people and had put off having that dreaded procedure.

On May 12, 2008, I had my first colonoscopy at the age of 55. I knew in my heart they would find something. The doctor told me after the procedure I had what he believed to be a cancerous polyp in my rectum. He also told me he suspected it had metastasized to other parts of my body and suspected it was a late stage cancer. He had nothing to back this up other than the colonoscopy. He ordered a PET scan and blood tests.

I sent out emails with the news to all my friends. One of my friends suggested I call a cancer hospital in Southern California, which was about 1½ hours from our home. Another friend called me about Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I took the number and called. The representative told me about CTCA® and their hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma. She explained how CTCA would fly us out to Tulsa for a consultation with doctors. They would also make arrangements for us to stay in a nearby hotel. I stopped the representative and asked her what the “catch” was. She told me there was no “catch.” I started to cry and told her no one does that for anyone! I told my husband we needed to check this out and to just humor me by going to see what CTCA was all about.

I first went to the appointment at the cancer hospital in California. They wanted me to have another colonoscopy with rectal ultrasound at another facility across town. We do not know our way around the Pasadena/Los Angeles area, so this was going to be a challenge.

A couple days later, we flew to Tulsa to CTCA with my PET scan in hand and the blood tests I had. We could not believe CTCA. It was like a resort with a focus on cancer – unlike any cancer facility I had been to. And clean! Everyone was so compassionate and caring. Something I hadn’t really experienced to this degree anywhere.

The first day I saw my medical oncologist, who told me after reading my PET scan that it had not metastasized elsewhere and that it was not a late stage cancer. Good news! After the second day of seeing doctors, we knew our decision was a no-brainer, that I would be treated in Tulsa at CTCA. As I tell everyone, I felt like God was present there. I never had that feeling in any other medical facility. I knew I didn’t want to be treated at home because my gastro doc wasn’t sure who to send me to for a surgeon and didn’t even have an oncologist lined up for me to see. Regardless of what I might have thought about my local options, God had other plans and being in Tulsa was in those plans.

To start, my treatment plan was that I would get a chemotherapy port placed, and then receive radiation with TomoTherapy® and 5-FU chemotherapy five days a week for six weeks. The hopes were the radiation and chemo would shrink the tumor so that I could have a rectal-sparing procedure instead of an abdominoperineal resection, which is the removal of the rectum along with a colostomy. After that, I returned home for eight weeks to recover. I then returned to CTCA to find out the tumor hadn’t shrunk enough and was too close to the sphincter to make a rectal-sparing procedure possible.

The news was devastating to me. I remember when Dr. Greeff told me, I broke down in tears. As I have since told my husband, I felt I was grieving a loss. Dr. Greeff told me I could think about it, consider alternative options or have surgery. He told me whatever I decided to do, that time was of the essence, and I didn’t want to miss the window of opportunity for surgery. I told him immediately I was not interested in traveling all over looking for something alternative and that I wanted to schedule surgery. He asked me if I was sure, and if I wanted more time to think about it. I told him that I was sure.

Dr. Greeff immediately referred us to a CTCA wound care nurse, who started to educate us on what a colostomy and stoma were. I couldn’t listen, I couldn’t look. My husband saw what was going on with me and asked the nurse to slow down because this had been pretty devastating news for both of us. That’s when she turned to me and asked if I was a Christian. I had always been, but for some reason that day, I hesitated. I didn’t know where my faith was. I still believed, but I felt I had lost my way. I know today that God took me to CTCA to get my feet back on the right path again, and it started with that wound care nurse. After the prayer, I had a whole different outlook and was able to listen and talk about it. I felt like the sadness had gone away. I realized that God really works in our lives when we least expect it, but when we most need it.

I had surgery. I was so blessed because the cancer had not gone outside the rectal wall, and had not metastasized to other organs or lymph nodes. It was a stage II cancer. Two months after I had healed, I started on a chemotherapy regimen consisting of oxaliplatin, 5-FU and leucovorin, along with premeds that kept me from getting sick. I had always been a high energy person, and I remember my medical oncologist warning me the chemo was going to affect my energy level. How true that was! I needed to learn to listen to my body and rest when it told me to rest. I stayed in the guest rooms at the hospital throughout the majority of those five months, only returning home a couple times. My husband would also fly out to visit me.

I tell everyone today that it was God’s hand that took me all the way to Tulsa for treatment. I knew I did not want to be treated in our local town, but I had no idea I would be treated in Tulsa! God knew that he needed me there for such a time as this. I know that I could not have gotten the same spiritual journey, quality of care, compassion, or pampering back home that I got in Tulsa. I not only went on a cancer journey, but a wonderful journey of finding my way back to God. I know that being at CTCA played a large part in that latter journey.

Coincidentally, my last chemo was completed on the date of my first-year anniversary of being diagnosed.  

CTCA is a positive, caring, compassionate, upbeat facility. The fact that everything is under one roof without the need to be running all over town for appointments was a huge stress reliever. That convenience made all the difference in the world for me. Also, cleanliness was important, and CTCA was immaculate.

The onsite accommodations for outpatients made my life so much less stressful as I was going through treatment. I had people around me, including care providers and many new friends I made at the hospital. If I needed urgent care, it was right there—no sitting in a hospital ER for several hours at home to be seen. I felt I was well cared for and looked after, and yes, spoiled!

My oncologist was really wonderful! They could not have matched me up with a better oncologist. I continue to see him for my regular checkups. My other CTCA doctors have been great, too. And, I can’t say enough about the caring staff, nurses and all the other employees I encountered. They are the cream of the crop.

I also think having all the other clinicians available at CTCA was a plus in improving my quality of life after surgery and during chemotherapy and radiation treatment. I took full advantage of the Oncology Rehabilitation Department. The therapists helped get me back on my feet after surgery. When I was going through chemo the last five months, I was on a treadmill almost every other day, even if it was for a short while. I believe it helped in my recovery.

I also received reflexology and Reiki therapy as well. Both helped to calm and relax me. I also took advantage of learning the relaxation methods offered by one of the mind-body therapists. I received some acupuncture at CTCA, and continued with that treatment after I returned home.

The dietitian also had a lot of information to impart to us. We were already eating healthy, but she gave us some additional helpful information.

The spiritual support I received was appreciated a lot. A chaplain prayed with me before I went in to surgery, or any other surgical procedures. Chaplains also visited with me as I recovered in the hospital after surgery. And, at the start of chemo, I always had someone to pray for me, too.

Life changes and challenges aside, I basically feel good. I’m still struggling with neuropathy in my feet. I have tried everything possible to help the nerves repair, but so far, I haven’t experienced much relief in the numbness. I still walk on the treadmill three to four days a week. I have gotten back to doing everything I was before, all in small increments over the last two years. I’m back working my photography business again and have photographed a few weddings and families. One part of my business is devoting time to Operation: Love Reunited. It’s a 100 percent volunteer effort that provides our military personnel deploying to either Iraq or Afghanistan and their families with free predeployment photo sessions and a designed photo album for the person being deployed, as well as already gone photo sessions and coming home sessions. OpLove is my way of giving back to our military men and women and their families.

Being the cat lover that I am, I also volunteer for Greyfoot Cat Rescue in Ventura, California, which I was doing before I was diagnosed. I get to get my “kitten fix” without having to bring one home!

In addition, I am finishing up academy classes with our police department and will be part of their Volunteers in Policing team. Who would have ever thought?!

I have joined a couple of Bible study groups, something I was not doing before, but had always wanted to do. After returning home, doors opened up to do that. It really helps me to keep my focus on God.

In June 2010, my husband and I went to Germany for two weeks. If someone had told me I would be going on another international trip when I was first diagnosed, I would have told them I doubted that. So, going to Germany was my own personal celebration. In the spring of 2012, we will be going on a two-week tour with a group from our church to the Holy Lands! It’ll be the trip of a lifetime.

All in all, I am living life to the fullest and encouraging others who are fighting this disease to pray, give glory to God for all the good things he does in your life, and never give up on hope.

My cancer story started in 1998. I had lost vision in my right eye one day. After going through a series of tests, we learned that I had choroidal melanoma and the tumor had detached my retina. I had my right eye removed. At that time, the only treatment I had was surgery. 

Fast forward 15 years later, to May 2013, when I was lying in bed and found a lump in my left breast. At first, I thought it was a really large bug bite, but after it didn’t go away, I went to the doctor. I learned the melanoma had metastasized to my breast. When I heard that, everything turned upside down for me. I felt like I was being caught in a wave—I was under water, and I had no way up. But I continued to press forward and had a lumpectomy.

After the surgery, I started taking interferon for five months. During that time, I was experiencing many side effects that were making me really sick. There were days that I couldn’t get out of bed. I had difficulty walking and talking. Just showering was so exhausting that I would be unable to get up for the next few days.

Again in November 2013, I learned the melanoma had metastasized to my brain, and I underwent Gamma Knife radiation. I was also still dealing with the aftermath side effects from the interferon. While all this was going on, I felt frustrated because I am typically very active. I have a husband and three beautiful children. Outside of our jobs, my husband and I are very active in music. I volunteer a lot, especially at my children’s school. I used to take care of my family, and now they had to take care of me. The side effects I was experiencing really strained our family.

I was up late one night watching television because I couldn’t sleep. A commercial came on for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and before I knew it, I called. I spoke to an Oncology Information Specialist to learn more, and I immediately felt a connection. He listened to what I had to say and understood what I was going through.

After my insurance approved me to go to CTCA® in April 2014, my husband and I were on a plane from Pennsylvania to Chicago to visit the hospital in northern Illinois. We soon discovered why traveling so far from home was worth it.

Everything at CTCA was so different from anything I had ever experienced. CTCA specifically tailored my care to me. All along, my doctors were very good at explaining things and keeping me informed. They spent a great deal of time with me. As long as I had questions, the doctors and clinicians would stay there and give me all of the information I asked for and more.

The people at CTCA were also so warm, and made us feel safe and at peace. There is simply a wonderful atmosphere of togetherness there. I felt like I found support and community with the staff and patients.

When I first came to CTCA, I didn’t have active cancer at that time. I received various supportive care therapies, including naturopathic medicine and rehabilitation therapy, to better manage the aftereffects of my previous treatment. I experienced the benefits of integrative care firsthand.

Then in April 2015, the day I completed my last physical therapy session, I found another lump, this time in my right breast. I knew I wanted to receive my treatment at CTCA, where I felt I was in the best hands. I had a second lumpectomy. Everyone who cared for me, from the surgeon to the nurses, showed me true compassion. I was taken care of every step of the way.

In January 2017, the cancer metastasized a third time. I chose to have a partial mastectomy with reconstruction. I felt that the team at CTCA took excellent care of me.

During a routine scan in August 2017, a previous spot on my right lung had started growing. I went in the next day for a biopsy. It was very scary trying to imagine what the next few days, weeks or months might look like. My medical oncologist called the day the results arrived, and she had already reached out to specialists and had multiple options ready for me, available the next week. I chose to receive stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in October 2017 for 10 days on metastatic tumors in my left and right lungs.

As of December 2017, I am thrilled to report all is stable.

I know that metastatic cancer can return wherever and whenever. I know I only have to make one phone call, and my team at CTCA will present all the options open to me at the time, and will take the same excellent care of me as they have for years.

While I was home, I needed support and a community away from CTCA. I found a branch of Gilda’s Club called Our Clubhouse and become involved with them. They do art, yoga, cooking classes and support survivorship.  

I also started creating art from old records. I sculpt them and create wall hangings. Through my art, I was able to escape. Sometimes, I am able to get famous people to sign the art, and then I donate it to be auctioned for charity. It started off as my way to contribute and take care of other people while I was being taking care of.

My husband has a full-time job, but he also plays the keyboard and guitar, and he sings. His band tours and travels, and they have opened for many artists. When I began to get my stamina back, I joined my husband.

Then one day, I had this crazy idea to put together a fundraiser for Our Clubhouse. I came up with an idea modeled after an existing camp for adults who play rock and roll with musicians. Participants are essentially assigned a band, and they practice and perform with their group. There is a tremendous amount of growth, support and positivity that comes out of it. I thought, why not do the same thing but with doctors and make it a fundraiser? My husband and I know many musicians. We had the connections and the motivation.

With a team of volunteers, we put together the event. We called it Docs that Rock. The event had eight doctors jamming like rock stars, and we raised $75,000 in donations for Our Clubhouse. We had so many volunteer musicians helping with the event, and it was hugely successful. I just feel beyond blessed and grateful for all the work and efforts of so many.

Since my last surgery, I have been taking advantage of the time and gifts that God has given me. I have come to realize that in my life, my lows are lower than the average person, but my highs are higher than the norm. I acknowledge and appreciate so much more after going through what I have. I am a better mom and a better wife because I know I have fought hard to be here today.

Recently, I have traveled more than I ever had. I have been to Los Angeles, New York, Brazil and Italy. I have seen so many milestones accomplished. I was there to watch my son graduate from Army training. My daughter then graduated from high school, and I moved her off to college. My youngest is still in high school, and I am able to attend most of his soccer games. I continue to tour with my husband across the world.  

Every year, I celebrate the anniversary that I was diagnosed with cancer the first time. It’s a bigger day to me than my birthday because I reflect on all that has happened since then. I am so grateful for what I have—I have had many great moments. Metastatic disease means it can come back, wherever and whenever it wants. And should it come back, I’ll tackle it there, too. My story isn’t over yet. I am not giving up because I have so much to live for.

At 47 years old, I went for a mammogram and the pathologists viewing the results noticed a lump. I had a biopsy immediately at the same facility where the mammogram had been done and the doctor confirmed the cells were cancerous.

Soon after, I went to a regional cancer center near my home in Richmond, Virginia and met with an oncologist there to discuss treatment options. The doctor told me the cancer was stage IV.

I had been diligent about having an annual mammogram, but I had missed the year prior to my diagnosis. It’s hard to think about that now. Would the cancer have been diagnosed at an earlier stage if I hadn’t missed one yearly mammogram?

My family and friends became my support network right away. When I began talking with one of my daughters (I have four) and a close friend about treatment options, I was still very overwhelmed. The local cancer center had scheduled my first chemotherapy treatment, but I was feeling uncertain.

Another friend mentioned a friend of his had been treated at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in Philadelphia and was doing great. I dismissed CTCA as an option because of the location. How was I going to travel from Virginia to Philadelphia for cancer treatment? Then a cousin told me about a friend who’d been treated at CTCA, and my daughter told me about it too.

In the meantime, I was growing increasingly uncomfortable with the local facility. I was scheduled to start chemotherapy at the nearby hospital. But when I saw a commercial for CTCA on television soon after, it was as if I was being given a message that I had to pay attention to. I called the number on a Tuesday afternoon and in less than a week, left for Philadelphia.

The plan for my initial visit to CTCA was to have a consultation and get a second opinion on my treatment. By the time I arrived, my tests had been reviewed and a treatment plan had been created. When I talked to an oncologist, she confirmed the cancer appeared to be stage IV, and it would be treated that way, but she said nothing about how long I had to live. “This is about you as an individual and how we are going to tackle this together,” she said to me.

On the Monday after my arrival, I had my first chemotherapy treatment at CTCA.

I had two rounds of chemotherapy over the course of about four months, and then underwent a double mastectomy. After healing from the surgery, I had chemotherapy for another three months, a phase of treatment I could have skipped, but my doctor and I wanted to be sure we did everything possible. When that treatment was done, I underwent radiation over about two months, completing treatment at the end of August 2014.

The most difficult aspects of this time were the side effects and the not knowing. There were times when I wanted to give up. I was tired. There were times when I was afraid; not of dying, but leaving my family. But people at CTCA kept me uplifted. I could not have asked for a better environment to be in. My friends there became like a second family. I started to look forward to traveling to Philadelphia for my treatments. I was comfortable there. I was taken care of.

In addition to the medical team, I worked with a dietitian, a naturopath, a physical therapist and an occupational therapist. There were plenty of other patients in need, but each staff person I interacted with made me feel like all their focus was on my personal care.

Being a caregiver is a difficult job. Family and friends were going through a tough time just like I was because they had their own family and issues; it was challenging at times because they could not understand my true needs of survival, the ups and down, and the sickness.

My care team helped me realize I was in control. No question was stupid, and there was always time for an answer. Having the support system provided at CTCA made me feel empowered to move forward. I was so glad I got over my initial hesitation about traveling for care. Now I see I needed to go to the place I felt was right for me.

If I never had faith to believe before, I am blessed and highly favored. Today I am feeling strong. I remain on the faculty at a university in Virginia, where I teach political science and business. I am continuing to pursue my doctorate degree in public administration. I have four daughters, and of course, eight grandchildren who kept me motivated throughout my journey. I wanted to be here to watch them grow and be their grandmother. They are the reason why I got up in the morning, even at my lowest point, and here I am today.

Despite maintaining good health throughout my life, for years I felt that a cancer diagnosis was coming my way. Close relatives on both sides of my family had cancer, so I was fairly certain that I would face such an illness at some point in my life.

In December of 2012, when I was 59 years old, I began losing weight very suddenly. I’ve always liked having a little weight on my bones, and suddenly the pounds seemed to be dropping off over night. My general practitioners, near our home in Port Richey, Florida, did some tests, including a chest X-ray, and told me that everything was fine. I had a feeling that something wasn’t right, though, so I requested an additional chest X-ray, which was done a month later. I decided to take the results to a lung specialist I saw annually. He looked at both X-rays and noticed a spot on the upper left lobe of one of my lungs. The same spot was in both of the X-rays.

At that point, I was pretty sure I had cancer, but my lung doctor wanted to do additional tests before issuing a diagnosis. After working in hospice for 40 years, and in light of my family history, I didn’t want to go through rounds of tests just to confirm what I already suspected. So I decided to go for a second opinion.

Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) was my first and only phone call. Years earlier I had seen something about CTCA in a magazine and told my husband then that if I were ever diagnosed with cancer, I wanted to be treated at CTCA.

Within two weeks, I was at Eastern Regional Medical Center in Philadelphia, one of the five CTCA hospitals nationwide. My husband came with me and together we listened to the care team explain everything. They wanted to do a biopsy, a physical examination and blood work, and then we would proceed together from there. I felt comfortable with how the doctors spoke with us and with the facility as a whole.

The diagnosis turned out to be difficult to make. The spot on my lung could not be confirmed as cancerous or benign, but the safest approach was to pursue treatment. 

My treatment consisted of surgical removal of most of my left lung. Because of staffing changes at the time, the procedure was actually done at a nearby hospital. I stayed at a hotel near CTCA for six weeks and whenever I needed something, someone was there to provide it.

After recovery from the surgery, I began taking hormone medication to prevent other cancers. When I began experiencing side effects, my doctor changed the medication to one that I happened to already be taking. Even though I wasn’t at the hospital when these issues arose, my doctor was right there to help me through.

The people I met at CTCA treated me with dignity and respect. What I saw there—the doctors, nurses, the cleaning crew, the cooks, all on a first-name basis with each other—I have never seen at any other hospital. And I have never before seen the level of comfort that CTCA provides. 

The same care given to me was extended to my husband, who has been my caregiver. We became particularly friendly with one of the security guards. He had seen us go to and from the hospital after my surgery and one day he offered my husband a hug. My husband was almost in tears from this small gesture, which was exactly what he needed at that moment.

Our travel plans also were seamless. CTCA arranged it all for us—the airplane, the hotel and the transportation. All we had to do was pack our bags. During my stay at the hotel near CTCA, if I needed to go somewhere, a car was there to take me, even if it was just around the corner.

About a year after my initial diagnosis, a routine mammogram at CTCA showed two spots on one of my breasts. Now, as I prepare for the next phase of my journey, I know that I am in safe hands and in the right place. 

Even though coping with a cancer diagnosis can be difficult, I was able to move through it somewhat stoically, in part because I was prepared. That has always been the way in my family: Let’s pull our socks up and carry on.

CTCA helped, though. The stakeholders there made life as easy and comfortable as possible. Once I was at CTCA, I knew there was hope. CTCA offers treatment not just for cancer but for the whole person.

More than ever, going through this experience has made me realize that every day is a gift. My husband is a gift, my son is a gift, and my own life is a gift.

“You have two months to live. Go home and get your things in order.” Those were the words I heard in July 2001. Just days before, I had walked 18 holes in a golf tournament and that evening I thought I might have food poisoning. After a few days, I still didn’t feel any better. A friend told me that my eyes looked yellow, so I went to the doctor. I soon heard the word “CANCER”—not just cancer—but stage IV pancreatic cancer with metastasis to my liver. My first thought was, “OK, let’s get it fixed.” But my doctors replied, “You don’t understand, it is inoperable and incurable.” That’s when I was told I had just two months to live.

To relieve my pain and jaundice, a tube was inserted into my side to drain backed-up bile. They put a leg bag on me and said I would live with that for the rest of my life. The doctor told me to go home and get my affairs in order.

My family and I decided that I needed a second opinion. My sister Pam and my caregiver Jana were busy searching the Internet and making phone calls, trying to find some place that would offer hope. That’s when my younger sister Beth called and told me that her in-laws had a friend who had been treated for pancreatic cancer at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and that they had saved his life. Pam got on the phone right away and called the CTCA® 800-number and talked to an Oncology Information Specialist. They seemed to know exactly what we were going through, were very informative and answered all of our questions. I was scheduled for an appointment within the week. I needed to get help as soon as possible as I was losing weight, could not eat and I was in terrible pain. Not knowing I was full of infection from the insertion of the biliary tube, I was able to get some pain medication. Pam and Jana put me in a wheelchair and accompanied me on a plane to the CTCA in Zion, Illinois. The first thing I remember was entering the lobby of CTCA and seeing the tree of survivors. I said I’m going to get my name on that tree!

CTCA began treating me right away for my infection, got my pain under control and confirmed the diagnosis. I could not believe how fast they were able to do all the tests. They did more in one day at CTCA than my hospital back home did in a week. When they scheduled me for an X-ray at 10 a.m., I had my X-ray at 10 a.m. I thought, WOW, these people know what they are doing.

After three days of tests, I asked my surgeon how long I had to live. He said he could not give me my “expiration date” …that date was “in greater hands than his.” It was at that moment that I realized someone had offered me HOPE! If I was willing to fight, they would fight with me.

The doctors then explained a very aggressive treatment plan, which began immediately and consisted of five days of FUDR leucovorin with one day of intra-arterial mitomycin platinum. I spent 26 days in the hospital fighting an infection in my body, along with a collapsed lung. During my stay in the hospital, I felt like I was surrounded by friends and people who really cared and who gave me hope. Everyone was so pleasant, from the person who cleaned my room to all the nurses, doctors, kitchen staff—everyone.

Each morning at 10, the group of CTCA health care professionals would come into my room to see me. By doing this, they could all hear at the same time how I felt and could answer any questions I had for them. Also, as soon as I arrived at CTCA, they started me on a regimen of vitamins that I continue to take to this day. I don’t know if it was the vitamins or my prayers, but I never lost the hair on my head even with all the chemotherapy. Each time they did tests, it showed that the tumors had shrunk.

After five months, my platelets were too low to continue with the original treatment, so we went to plan B. I then started on a regimen of oral chemo, and within months, the tumor could not be seen at all on the scans. I have been off chemo since November 2002.

At present, I take Prilosec® once a day and the vitamins that were recommended to me by CTCA. I enjoy spending my time working full time, riding my horses, camping, golfing, traveling, and being with my friends and family. Through the excellent care that I received at CTCA and the constant love, support and prayers from my family and friends, I have stayed positive and set goals for myself. I have talked to numerous patients and many of them say, “I wish I would have found CTCA right away.”

So many hospitals treat you like a number, but at CTCA they treat you like family. I was very fortunate to have found CTCA so soon after my diagnosis. I, like most people, wanted to be treated close to home, but I truly believe if I had, I would not be here to share my story. I continue to count my blessings every day and have recently taken on the opportunity of becoming South Dakota’s Team Hope Leader for an organization called the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. I hope others that have been diagnosed with this disease and are not satisfied with what they have been told will call Cancer Treatment Centers of America. Remember there is always hope and as the song goes by Lee Ann Womack, “you have a choice to sit it out or dance”...“I Hope You Dance.”

They always say, “cancer changes your life,” and it really does. I feel like every day is a blessing and I truly live life to its fullest. This summer I will be putting on my sixth annual golf tournament for pancreatic cancer. I’m a social golfer, avid camper and I love horseback riding. In fact, I even take my horse Cider camping with me. I also continue to go to work, simply because I can.

I remember telling myself when I was sick, “If I survive, I want to give other people hope.” It became one of my goals to help other people by offering support and encouragement. I enjoy talking to survivors and pancreatic cancer patients regularly, and volunteer for the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network.

I firmly believe people who set goals live longer, as Dr. Granick, my medical oncologist at CTCA, once said to me. One of the other goals I made when I was sick was to continue my annual trip to the Black Hills. I’ve only missed the trip twice—once when one of my horses gave birth and the other when I was sick, which was in 2001. I was determined to make that trip in 2002. Boy, I sure did, and I have every year since then.

Each year I try to travel to places I’ve never been to. I’ve been considering visiting Yosemite in California, Alaska, or maybe the Grand Canyon.

I enjoy taking a scenic road trip to CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center once a year for my checkup. Every time, it’s like going home. In 2006, I attended Celebrate Life® at the hospital. It was fantastic! My family and friends came with me. I spoke at the ceremony and then we celebrated with a big party. They sure do know how to put on a party!

Speaking of parties, each year since I was diagnosed with cancer, my friends host a great party that’s very much like our own Celebrate Life. Every year they come up with a different theme and name. To name a few, the first year it was the “Tumors are Shrinking Party.” Then there was the “No Glow Party,” when my PET scan came out clear. Another year it was the “Portless Peggy Party,” because my port had been removed.

My wonderful friends are my good luck charms. To this day, we always gather for a dinner before my trip to CTCA for a checkup each year. 

I shared my thoughts about what it was like to become a 10-year pancreatic cancer survivor and answered questions people had submitted to CTCA about my cancer journey and life today.

In May 2006, I was 48 and busy living life to the fullest. I was working, enjoying life with my bride, Kim, and spending my spare time woodworking, fishing, deer hunting, doing yard work and fundraising. I knew something wasn’t right, though, when I started to pass blood in my stool. I went directly to Kim and told her. As a registered nurse, she immediately went into action and started making phone calls to the appropriate medical agencies. This led to me to urgent care. I then had a colonoscopy and was diagnosed with colon cancer.

Before surgery for the cancer, I had more tests—CT scans and blood work. My surgeon and oncologist told me my scans showed that the cancer had spread (stage IV) and covered my entire liver. The following week, I had surgery to remove nine inches of my colon.

Kim and I felt that I needed more than the standard chemotherapy plan after my surgery. I needed advanced options and doctors who would be on top of my care. I spoke with a coworker who was going through cancer treatment at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in Zion, Illinois, about an hour away from my home in Wind Lake, Wisconsin. She recommended CTCA®. My brother-in-law called the hospital for information, and we decided it was worth looking into. Within a matter of days, I set out to get a second opinion at CTCA.

After a few days of initial testing, Kim and I met with my oncologist, and I began chemotherapy that day. From the get-go, my CTCA care team was on the same page as I was. They invited me to have a say in my treatment, and I was never given a time limit. Instead, I was given hope and a commitment that they’d fight with me. I chose to fight at CTCA.

My medical oncologist broke down my diagnosis and treatment plan so Kim and I could understand what he was telling us. We felt like the more information we received about my cancer and treatment, the more comfortable we were while I was going through treatment. But it wasn’t easy. And certainly, the hardest part of going through treatment was the fear of the unknown. I began an aggressive chemotherapy regimen of cisplatin and leucovorin. I received Zofran® to prevent nausea. Every three weeks, I’d start a new cycle of chemotherapy. I had 15, five-day chemo treatments. I also received three intra-arterial chemo treatments (mitomycin) directly to my liver.

By August 2006, I was able to get back to work part-time. After seven to eight months of chemotherapy, I moved back to a full-time schedule. What kept me going through it all was a positive attitude and outstanding support from my bride, family, friends and co-workers.

I remember a conversation I had with my medical oncologist in the first year I was going through treatment at CTCA. I told him, “I'm not going to make it to deer camp this year.” I was bummed. But he assured me I was well on my way to getting better. He said, "You'll be at deer camp next year." The next November, I went up to deer camp and harvested the biggest deer of my life.

The nurses in the Infusion Center were wonderful and helped me through all my chemotherapy treatments. There wasn't a day when they didn't have a smile, a hug or a joke for me. I often refer to them as my infusion angels.

During my treatment, my quality of life was fair. Because I received a comprehensive treatment plan, I received therapies that helped me stay strong and manage some of the side effects of the chemotherapy. For example, my naturopathic oncology provider recommended ginger root to help me with my stomachaches after I received chemotherapy. Also, my dietitian helped me prevent weight loss through ongoing nutritional support.

Kim was key to helping me through my fight. She put up with me 24/7 throughout the battle. With her background and training, she understood some of my issues, and other times, wouldn’t put up with them. CTCA was supportive of her and aware of her needs as well. I’ll never forget how my medical oncologist's nurse always asked how Kim was doing.

Kim and I found the Mother Standard® of care at CTCA to be comforting, and also the fact that all of us at CTCA were either cancer patients or caregivers. We were all in the same boat and there for each other.

In August 2007, after 15 months, 78 chemotherapy treatments, countless CT and PET scans, enough blood work to last a lifetime, three inpatient stays, having my lungs drained, several blood transfusions, and hundreds, if not a few thousand, hours spent at CTCA, my medical oncologist and his nurse told us I had completed my treatment. Today, I return to CTCA for checkups annually.

In 2007, I was humbled and honored to receive our local and national award, the “Unsung Hero Award,” from my employer. Something else I was really proud of was teaming up with my brothers to raise more than $30,000 in 2006 and 2007 for children in Wisconsin who had been burned in a fire. The money covered their expenses to attend a local summer camp for burned and injured youth.

But truly, waking up every day is a milestone. I was honored to celebrate five years as a cancer survivor at Celebrate Life at CTCA in June 2011. CTCA also put a gold leaf with my name on it on the Tree of Life in the hospital’s lobby. Also, after holding off on foreign travel for four years, in spring 2011, Kim and I traveled to Jamaica to celebrate life with friends. As of August 2017,  am now an 11-year survivor.

As a retired U.S. Air Force firefighter, my motivation during my fight goes to back to my days as a firefighter. It was as we say in the Fire Service, “the will to slay the dragon.” Never give up, no matter what, and keep moving. As a widower to breast cancer in 1993, I knew how important it was to maintain a positive attitude.

Ways that you or your loved ones can feel empowered during cancer treatment is to have a positive attitude and keep goals in mind. Always do a little something, be it a project or work, even if you can’t complete the task. Try to do something nice for someone else, when you are able. It’ll make both you and that person feel better. And my advice for caregivers is to let the patient do what he or she can whenever possible.

As a member of the CTCA Cancer Fighters® Care Net, I regularly speak with others who are fighting cancer and who are considering coming to CTCA for treatment. I’m also a member of the CTCA Cancer Fighters group. At work, I started up a self-made support group with a co-worker who is a breast cancer survivor. I also developed a cancer information book for the entire workforce. I am often asked at work, or around the neighborhood, to assist a patient or family member with questions or concerns, and never hesitate to help in any way I can.

I realize I belong to a club that nobody ever wants to join—the cancer club. But once you're in, you're in, and all of us cancer patients are special to one another. So the more folks I can help, the better.

I would like to thank every member of the staff at CTCA in Zion, my bride Kim, my family, my friends around Wind Lake, and my co-workers. This was a team effort, and I never could have made it to this day without each and every one of you. Thank you!

As I like to say, put the “smile mask on” and get on with it. Your family and friends need to see you out and about. Remember to maintain a sense of humor and keep smiling through the fight. Cancer hates smiles.

When I was 50 years old, I went for a routine mammogram at a breast clinic in Little Rock, Arkansas. The specialists there told me that I needed to come back for a second round of images, which didn’t faze me because I’ve had my left breast rechecked at every mammogram for the past three years. This time, the recheck was needed for the right breast.

After the second mammogram, I was told I needed an ultrasound. The technicians were having a hard time getting the image. The doctor came to look at the ultrasound images and was concerned about something he was seeing. He wanted me to have a biopsy. When the biopsy results came back, I got a call from my breast surgeon, who told me I had breast cancer.

The next step was a CT scan and a bone scan, followed by a talk with the breast surgeon about my treatment plan. He told me and my husband what kind of cancer I had and said I needed to schedule surgery. He gave us some options. The possible approaches for my treatment were either a lumpectomy with radiation and possibly chemotherapy, if the cancer was found in the lymph nodes, or a mastectomy with no additional treatment.

My husband looked at the doctor and looked at me, and he said, “We are not scheduling surgery.” He wanted to get a second opinion. I knew he meant it, and didn’t want to argue. But that was hard to hear because I was ready to get surgery.

I was caught up in my emotions, and am very glad that my husband stopped and said no. He felt I was being rushed into a decision and he knew where he wanted to go for a second opinion: Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA).

Because my husband’s cousin had been treated for ovarian cancer at CTCA, he wanted me to go to CTCA for a second opinion.

My initial consultation at CTCA took a week, as I needed an additional biopsy. My husband said he felt that we were in the right place as soon as we walked into the hospital. For me, that moment came as soon as I talked to my breast oncologist, Dr. Anita Johnson.

Dr. Johnson was humorous, caring, warm, and gave me total confidence. I had complete trust in her from the start. When she looked at all the materials from the imaging tests I’d had before coming to CTCA, she told me that I needed a PET scan. Upon seeing those images, she wanted me to have a biopsy on the other breast, which revealed that there was cancer there, too.

Dr. Johnson recommended intraoperative radiation therapy, or IORT, where radiation is done during surgery. I didn’t want a mastectomy, and Dr. Johnson explained that I could be treated without one. It was my decision, but I never would have come to that decision without her thorough attention.

Only the right breast qualified for IORT, so I had surgery on the left breast at the same time, followed by four cycles of chemotherapy with taxotere and cyclophosphamide. I also had 30 treatments of radiation on the left breast. Altogether, I was at CTCA for about seven weeks.

The chemotherapy was difficult. I had some pain, some mouth sores, and fatigue. My bones ached and the pain medication was not helping. For all of these issues, my care team at CTCA was there to help. I had medication and supplements to control nausea. When I had to go to the local emergency room for the bone pain, my doctors at CTCA stayed in communication with the hospital.

I was on my own during the first week at CTCA, and my husband came to stay on the weekends. I had family there with me for most of the time, which was wonderful. But being on my own was not lonely, because there were so many people at the hospital who were looking out for me.

CTCA removed the stress. We didn’t have to worry about transportation, insurance logistics, or anything else. And they treated me with such care. One time I mentioned to someone that I was craving a baked potato, and a couple of days later there was a baked potato bar set up in the cafeteria.

The fact that everything is in one building was also a huge stress reliever. I didn’t have to travel from one office to another to get imaging tests, blood tests and chemotherapy. Everything was right there, under one roof. 

I was reluctant about getting a second opinion when my husband first suggested it. But now when I speak with people diagnosed with cancer my first recommendation is: get a second opinion. That is one of the best things you can do for yourself.

Today I am feeling great. I have some residual fatigue, but I know that will go away with time. We celebrated the completion of my treatment with a trip to Las Vegas. My husband has given me strength through this time, bringing me back to reality when I needed it, helping me to laugh, and keeping me grounded.

CTCA was its own kind of motivation. The care that was given to me there got me through a difficult time, and I’ll forever be grateful for that.

In 2004, when I was 67 years old, my doctor noticed that my PSA (prostate-specific antigen) score, which can sometimes be an indicator of prostate cancer, was rising a little faster than normal. He referred me to a urologist, who also checked my PSA. Six weeks later, he checked it again, and it was continuing to increase steadily. A biopsy showed two of 12 samples positive for cancer.

The urologist I saw was a surgeon, and surgery was his first suggestion upon diagnosing me with stage II prostate cancer. The other option he mentioned was a permanent implant of radiation seeds. Neither option appealed to me. He noted that the cancer was slow growing, so there was no hurry for me to decide right away. So I decided to do my research.   

I did quite a bit of research online, and became interested in high-dose rate brachytherapy. After reading as much as I could, I called the toll-free number for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). It was 11 p.m. when I called, so I was expecting to leave a voicemail message. To my surprise, someone answered. Her attitude and manner of speaking were appealing right from the start. She told me about the facility in Zion, Illinois, which is not too far from my home.

When I first called CTCA®, I was already scheduled to have a physical the next week. I figured I’d wait until that was complete and then go to CTCA. But the representative I’d spoken to that night called me the very next morning and scheduled an appointment for an initial evaluation. During that consultation, my oncologist recommended an approach called intensity modulated radiation therapy, or IMRT. I decided to go with that option. 

I received radiation therapy for five days a week for eight weeks. Each day, I traveled from home to have the treatment first thing in the morning. Fortunately, the side effects were minor. I met with a registered dietitian and a naturopathic oncology provider, who each recommended foods and supplements to help my body cope with the treatment. I continue to meet with them from time to time.

As happy as I was with the treatment itself, I was equally thankful for the approach taken by everyone at CTCA. The care there is compassionate. That compassion comes from not only the doctors and nurses but also from the entire staff. The whole hospital environment revolves around compassionate care.

Today, I continue to feel and do well. I enjoy home maintenance projects, and recently redecorated my living room and two bedrooms, including new windows and hardwood floors. After my treatment, I became very interested in radiology and have been taking courses through the American Society of Radiologic Technologists. I also attended the annual convention of the Radiologic Society of North America and took several courses they offered to members. I’ve made some lasting friendships from the time I’ve spent at CTCA. For the past several years, I have helped out in the annual five-year Celebrate Life® event at CTCA at Midwestern Regional Medical Center. During the event, I quite often run across patients I have met during their course of treatment. It is a rewarding experience for both me and the patients.

The Cancer Fighters® team went out of its way to involve me in various activities. I now volunteer regularly at the hospital, and I am glad for the opportunity to do something positive for others going through a similar situation. I also became part of the Cancer Fighters Care Net team. In this capacity, I get to talk with new patients and quite often meet with them when they arrive at CTCA. When talking with a new patient, I emphasize the importance of proper nutrition and diet as well as a healthy lifestyle

My experience showed me how important it is to find out as much as you can about your diagnosis. Sometimes people don’t like to talk about medical issues. Men can sometimes have a hard time with this, but with prostate cancer it’s vital to talk about what’s going on. I always encourage people to explore all options and get a second opinion. Don’t be afraid to ask questions. And if you learn something valuable, make sure to pass it on to someone else who might need to hear it Education can be a key factor in a positive outcome.

It was Thanksgiving Day of 2008, when I first felt pain under my ribs during dinner. I went to the hospital the next day as a precaution because the pain persisted. The hospital staff ran tests and completed scans to try to determine the source of the pain. The results came back that I had cancer: stage IV metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. I was in shock.

For the next two and a half years, I received multiple cycles of chemotherapy treatment. During this time, my cancer continued to progress while I was on treatment, and I began to search out new options. That’s when my research led me to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). 

I began treatment at CTCA® near Chicago in January 2011. The first step was completing advanced genomic testing (a test that looks at what is driving the cancer at the molecular level) on my tumor. After this test, I knew I was in the right place for cancer treatment. At CTCA, they focus on whole-person care and personalized treatments. I felt renewed hope that I could continue to find new ways to fight my cancer.

I understood that the genomic testing revealed that there were too many copies of a particular protein or other substance that may have been playing a role in my tumor’s development. This new information was helpful in determining potentially more appropriate treatment options since, as I understand it, the results predicted that my cancer would likely be resistant to the standard chemotherapy treatment typically recommended for my type of cancer. Based on the results, my oncologist and I agreed on a treatment plan involving a different chemotherapy combination.

Two years down the road, I received news that my cancer was progressing. In the fall of 2013, my oncologist decided to order a new genomics test with a new biopsy. The test indicated that I may respond to a drug previously not considered an option for me, even though the drug was not yet approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for my tumor type.

I began taking the new drug in January 2014 for about a year and a half. The drug was approved by the FDA for my cancer type only a few short months later. During this time, I was stable, but in June 2015, my CT and PET scans showed progression, and I was switched to second-line ALK inhibitor. I continued on this treatment, and in June 2016, my PET scan showed improved lung disease. When I got that news, I hugged my medical oncologist. I was so excited. 

Today (February 2017), I am feeling great. I feel that I am now getting back to “regular life.” I have retired from working at the post office. I enjoy spending time with my wife, two sons and eight grandchildren.

I return to CTCA regularly, and I understand that I will likely need to continue with my current treatment regimen for years to come. I feel that my quality of life has improved immensely, and there is never a moment that I am not feeling blessed for being alive.

My experience with lung cancer has changed me in many ways. Before being diagnosed, I believed that I had some say so in my life’s road map. However, I eventually and thankfully came to the realization that God is really the architect of my life. Once I was accepting of this, my fears and anxieties were greatly reduced. I am thankful that this journey ultimately led me to CTCA, where I trusted in my doctors and the treatment plan they designed for my specific cancer. I leave the science behind advanced genomic testing to the experts, but what I do know is it has helped me, and my hope is that it will be able to help many more others staring down a cancer diagnosis. I can’t say enough wonderful things about CTCA, and how they helped me get through every roadblock I encountered. I love telling others about the care and support I received.

My experience with cancer began with a feeling I tried to ignore: I knew that something wasn’t right. My wife knew, too. I was exercising at the gym quite often, trying to tone my abs. But although my stomach was flat, my upper chest was bulging. There were bumps around my neck. My wife told me repeatedly that my arms were looking smaller, probably because the adjacent areas were larger than usual. I was 50 years old at the time.

After Christmas in 2006, even after indulging in holiday meals, I discovered that I had lost 12 pounds. That change concerned me, and those words—something isn’t right—became louder in my mind. I went to see our regular doctor, a general practitioner, and at the end of our visit I asked him, “By the way, what are these lumps on my throat?”

My doctor knew right away that something wasn’t right, and he knew not to ignore that knowledge. Two days later I had a biopsy at a hospital near our home outside Tulsa. Tissue samples were taken from a lymph node under one of my arms, and I also had a bone marrow biopsy. The results were sent to my general practitioner, and he told me to come see him. He told me that he was fairly certain I had non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or NHL. He said he would arrange for me to see an oncologist at a local hospital. I left the office as soon as I could to call my wife.

That phone call was when the shock hit me. Saying out loud, “I have cancer,” made it real. Those were words I had never expected to say.

My wife had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call. She reasoned that because CTCA® focuses exclusively on cancer, they had to be good at it. The person she spoke with checked our insurance compatibility and scheduled an initial three-day visit. To this day, I believe that my wife’s decision to call CTCA was one of the best things that has ever happened to me.

When my wife and I arrived, we immediately felt that something was right. By now we knew better than to ignore feelings like this. During that first visit, I was impressed by how straightforward the doctors were. No one was trying to hide anything, and the doctors were blunt and to the point. Everyone we met with, were introduced to, or passed by in the hallways seemed to share the same positive attitude. The doctors, the nurses, the greeters, the janitorial staff—we met the same kindness in everyone.

My oncologist wanted to begin my treatment with a regimen of steroids and oral chemotherapy, pills that I could take at home, with the goal of reducing the swelling in my spleen and preparing my body for chemotherapy. Because I have a fear of needles, I was glad to begin with oral chemotherapy.

But after taking oral chemotherapy for six months, it was time to begin the next stage of treatment. For two years, I received intravenous chemotherapy with rituximab every other month.

One day I felt a pain in my right femur. It was Sunday, and we were easily able to speak with someone at CTCA. My oncologist explained that the cancer was coming out of my bone, which was causing pain, and he started me on radiation to that area that day. I received that treatment every weekday for 21 days.

The treatment was what I would call “user friendly.” I didn’t lose my hair, and I was able to continue my work as an airplane mechanic. The femur troubles did inhibit my ability to stand for a while, but my workplace made adjustments.

Between the support systems I had at CTCA, at home, and at work, going through cancer treatment never felt overwhelming. My quality of life remained fairly good. The chemotherapy made me tired and there were times that I slept all day, but that fatigue passed. Aside from just after the first round of intravenous chemotherapy, I did not experience any nausea. My senses of smell and taste remain somewhat impaired today, but I continue to work with clinicians at CTCA to improve these very minor issues.

I was scared at first. But my medical oncologist set me at ease just with his demeanor. His confidence combined with his kindness somehow assured me that the treatment would work.

Trusting in my Care Team was vital to my recovery. My doctors were willing to take the time to listen to me and answer any questions I had. The people at CTCA make it a truly special place. They were with me every step of the way. The quality of the care provided was outstanding.

I was also blessed to have my wife by my side. She was always there for me. She was never angry or upset, and she never showed signs of her own tiredness. She focused on what she needed to do and protected me from anything negative coming in my direction. She was with me at every CTCA appointment aside from radiation. 

Patients should understand that we have the right to choose treatments and be part of the decision making process. At CTCA, even if the doctor disagrees with you, there is a great respect given to the patients in their care.

My will to live saw me through this difficult time. I want to live for my son, for my wife, for our life together. My son was in college when I was diagnosed. We had so much ahead of us still. It took longer than we thought, but it all worked out in the end. Today I have my normal energy levels and can do whatever work and play I want. I’m back on the golf course, back in the garden. Today I visit CTCA just once a year, and my imaging scans taken have shown no visible sign of the cancer returning. We are busy at home and have things we want to do. We are living our lives, and I couldn’t ask for anything better than that.

I had enjoyed 50 years of nearly perfect physical health and chalked up 29 years of perfect attendance with my current employer. But at 2 a.m. on January 2, 2010, I found myself in the fetal position on my bedroom floor in paralyzing, excruciating pain. My sweet wife, Darlene, did her best to comfort me, but there was no relief.

Two days later, she wheeled me into a urology clinic for a diagnosis for what was suspected to be kidney stones. During the evaluation, I received a non-contrasted CT scan of my lower abdomen. Within minutes, the urologist began to explain the size and orientation of my kidney stone, methods for treatment and short-term expectations. But in the same breath, he told me I had a serious issue with my right lung and that I needed to see a primary care physician (PCP) immediately.

Over the next several weeks, I went to see multiple physicians and went through a battery of tests, including X-rays, blood work and a contrasted CT scan. Radiologist reports clearly described the suspicious image noted by my urologist as multilobar pneumonia. As a result, my PCP prescribed strong antibiotics, quarantined me as a precaution to avoid contagion and continued with more blood work and saliva tests. The problem was I was not coughing and I had no fever or irregular blood counts, none of the things normally associated with pneumonia. Uncomfortable with these findings, my PCP referred me to a pulmonologist for more testing. At the pulmonologist’s office, I received a pulmonary function test, which indicated I had only a 60 percent breathing capacity. The pulmonologist reviewed the blood work and finally indicated he needed to do a bronchoscopy to sample the lung tissue. On January 29, we went back to see the pulmonologist for the final diagnosis: non-Hodgkin MALT lymphoma in my right lung. Our cancer journey began… 

News of my diagnosis spread quickly. My name went on countless prayer lists and was given to prayer teams in churches literally around the globe. The elders in my church laid hands on me and anointed me with oil, and my family, coworkers, friends and I began praying for healing.

I was immediately referred to a local cancer facility, where I underwent traditional workups for staging my disease, including a bone marrow biopsy, blood work, X-rays, and PET and CT scans. While waiting on numerous appointments and test results, over the next few weeks I became a student of my newly found condition. I read books, searched the Internet and talked to other medical professionals. Quickly realizing the critical role proper diet and exercise would play into my overall treatment plan, I made significant life changes to better prepare me for what lay ahead. Many kudos to my bride for countless hours in the kitchen.

Finally, the time came to meet with the oncologist to review my complete test results. The evaluation confirmed the cancer was restricted to my right lung and I was encouraged to begin treatment right away. Since I am naturally the analytical, inquisitive type, I asked many more detailed questions regarding the proposed treatment plan. I also asked about alternative treatments and overall care for the rest of my otherwise healthy body. The oncologist told me I had been reading too much and that I should leave the treatment plan up to him. We respectfully petitioned for a second opinion in hopes of finding an oncologist and cancer center that would offer a more supportive, integrated and inclusive treatment plan. The oncologist referred us to another center, but we encountered a waiting list.

While trying to determine the correct course, we contacted Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) on March 8. After reading information on the Internet about CTCA and talking with one of their representatives over the phone, we decided to set up an appointment for a consultation at the CTCA hospital in Tulsa. Less than a week later, we made the visit to meet with a team of doctors and other care providers at CTCA.

When we walked through the door of the hospital, we had a sense of a peace and relief. We were warmly greeted, shown around the hospital and given a detailed schedule of our appointments. CTCA staff walked us through every step of the way.

Each doctor and care provider I met with came into a clinic room to speak with us one at a time. We first met with Dr. Altshuler, an intake doctor. We talked about my overall health and medical history. He wanted to learn if I had other medical conditions that could affect my cancer treatment plan. Next I saw Dr. Pollock, my medical oncologist. He evaluated my pathology and radiology reports and confirmed my non-Hodgkin MALT lymphoma diagnosis. Dr. Pollock talked with us about building a treatment plan based on his recommendations and our input, which we felt was very important. We also met with a naturopathic oncology provider, who discussed some of the natural therapies and supplements I could take during my cancer treatment to help ease side effects and maintain energy. Lastly, we met with a dietitian, who offered recommendations for healthy food combinations to keep me nourished and strong.

All of the members of my care team asked us questions and asked for our input. They invited us into the decision-making process for developing my treatment plan. It was a collaborative team effort focused on “my” needs.

While we were certainly pleased at the overall plan CTCA offered, I felt committed to follow through with a scheduled appointment at the other cancer center to which we were initially referred. I wanted to do my due diligence and hear what their physicians had to say. Nevertheless, we did everything we could to try to formulate an integrated plan there and it just didn't happen. We felt they couldn't provide what CTCA offered, so we gladly returned to CTCA in Tulsa to begin treatment.

The treatment I received at CTCA included chemotherapy and integrative oncology services such as naturopathic medicine, nutrition therapy, acupuncture, mind-body support and chiropractic care. The integrative oncology services helped make my treatment plan unique. Some of the integrative oncology services I received, like chiropractic care, Darlene was able to receive as well.

In addition to integrated care and a care team that provided clear information, there are several reasons why I’m glad we chose CTCA. I had a virtual arsenal of enthusiastic care providers ready to fight and support whatever came my way. I was also able to receive all of my diagnostic testing and treatments in one place. Everything I needed was within the hospital. Also, the scheduling and planning was in great detail. There was no wasted time. My schedule for appointments and care was extremely efficient. And, Darlene and I felt like CTCA did everything possible to reduce the anxiety and stress in our lives. Even when I was back at home and had questions or issues that arose, the care management team was available 24/7 to guide me through logical steps of self-help.

Granted, it was a long, two-year journey. I received multiple chemotherapy treatments, but I made it through as strong and fit as anyone would hope for. I am confident I would not have come out of this as healthy as I am today had we not gone to CTCA for a second opinion.

Recovering from cancer is a powerful experience. It's very difficult to explain, but there's a newness in life. I’m seeing and hearing things much differently. It's been an exciting time too to think about the future—our children, grandchildren and our life together.

Darlene and I are enjoying life. We joined a bowling league and have taken trips we've never done before, from the top of Pikes Peak to deep mountain caves and across zip lines that traverse mountain gorges. We're working on our bucket list together and sharing help and inspiration along the way.

I've had a lot of enjoyment in helping and encouraging others who are fighting cancer. It's wonderful to see someone’s countenance change and see hope in their eyes. And that's what CTCA offers so much of—hope. People at CTCA are enthusiastic and they care. It's all over their faces and their body language. It's very easy to embrace an organization that offers hope to people in a very real and genuine way. It’s inspired me. I feel blessed to be able to speak to others and give them hope and encouragement, and do so in a heartfelt way.

I remember being diagnosed with cancer like it was yesterday. In the summer of 2003, I’d gone to my doctor complaining of some swelling on my neck. He ordered a biopsy and the test result came back as a benign cyst. We made plans to surgically remove it and on December 26, I finally did it. While doing surgery, my doctor discovered that the cyst was actually a tumor the size of a tennis ball. He also found three other tumors in my neck and a tumor at the base of my tongue.

On New Year’s Eve I was diagnosed with stage IV squamous cell carcinoma. It was the same cancer in the same area that my mom had been diagnosed with more than 20 years earlier. She lost her battle just one year after her diagnosis.

I went to visit a local oncologist in Kansas to discuss my treatment options. My ear, nose and throat specialist had only been able to remove the large tumor, so I was curious about the best course of treatment for the four smaller tumors left behind in my neck and mouth. He suggested chemotherapy and no further surgery.

I’m a big believer of getting to know your illness. I’ve always advocated doing your research so you know what you’re dealing with. When I went to get a second opinion from one of the premier medical oncologists in Kansas, he gave me similar treatment recommendations. I wanted to know what else I could do to fight my cancer.

The following week, I was all set to start chemotherapy, but something just didn’t feel right. I didn’t trust the information my oncologist was giving me. I decided not to treat and sought out an alternative clinic in Kansas that offered intravenous vitamin C treatments. By the end of 2004, I was told I needed more aggressive conventional cancer treatment or I was going to lose my battle.

When I searched online I found Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I wasn’t delaying anymore and I made an appointment at CTCA® at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in December of 2004. When I arrived, I met with my surgeon. I loved the way he handled things from the start. He was very straightforward and told me he recommended chemotherapy, but said that I was the one who had to make the decision. I hadn’t been treated like that by any of my other doctors.

I decided whatever I had to do, I would do it. It came down to the fact that I trusted this man. I saw his honesty and compassion, and it instilled confidence in me. When I met my oncologist, Dr. Granick, I had another honest exchange between a patient and doctor. He sat with me and took the time to answer my questions. He told me I was “the boss” and when I had questions about treatment options, we would discuss it. To this day, I tell people that if your doctor won’t answer your questions, find another doctor! You’re the one with everything to gain and everything to lose.

I started seven rounds of chemotherapy treatment, spaced three weeks apart. I would travel home in between treatments to be with my wife, Cindy, and 4-year-old son, Isaac. Little did I know that every time I left, Isaac thought I was going back to the hospital to die. Cindy finally told me and we made arrangements for all of us to go to the hospital. We sat with Dr. Granick and his physician assistant, Larry Wiggins, and they answered all of Isaac’s questions. He asked everything he wanted to know. It soothed me and my wife to see these men talking to and trying to calm down a 4-year-old child. Cancer is a very difficult experience for a child to go through and it amazed me that they took the time to acknowledge that. Isaac also got quite a bit of attention from the nurses, which he loved every minute of!

After completing my chemotherapy, I returned to the hospital in June 2005 for two months of radiation and hyperthermia treatment. This time, I stayed in the hospital’s guest quarters. I took advantage of the many supportive therapies offered at the hospital, including nutrition, massage, naturopathy, acupuncture and even some mind-body medicine. To please my wife, I took a Laughter Therapy class with Katherine Puckett and I didn’t think I would like it, but I came out of there a believer. I really felt better afterwards!

The best part for me was that Cindy was able to find support and comfort, too. I knew how I felt physically and that I was getting better, but Cindy had no indication. She was scared and would ask me how I could be so calm. I felt relieved that she could find some support, because as my caregiver for all those months she needed it. I think Cindy took more advantage of the massage and acupuncture than I did, and she deserved it.

I like to say that all of the people at CTCA sweat the small stuff—and that’s how it should be. A hundred insignificants become a big problem, and the team at CTCA deals with issues as they come up. They even helped my wife and I celebrate our anniversary. My first round of chemo took place during our 24th anniversary. My nurse found out and she brought two pieces of sugar-free, chocolate cherry cake to my room so we could celebrate. She made us feel very special!

I call cancer an inconvenient blessing because nobody wants to get it, but it can be a benefit to your life. If you can have the low moments, and not let them overwhelm you, you can learn about yourself and find strengths you never knew you had. My advice is to trust God and draw closer to him, as hard as that may seem at the time. And if you don’t have a sense of humor, get one! It’s just as important as everything else.

It’s been years since I completed my treatment and I feel so grateful to be here. I’m taking care of my wife, and we’re living every day as fully as we can with our son. He’s only going to be young for so long and I want to be there for him in every way. If it weren’t for CTCA, I know I wouldn’t be here to coach his baseball team and cheer him on at his football games. I’m looking forward to watching him grow into a successful man and being part of many life moments still to come for our family.

I was 30 years old when I found a lump on my breast. Cancer was the furthest thing from my mind. I was healthy and active. My husband and I had just gotten married a few months earlier. No one in my family had cancer. And I was too busy to dwell on any health issues. I had just started a master’s degree program in biology, I was rock climbing, I was in the military, and I was active with our church. No, it can’t be cancer. It couldn’t be. It wasn’t that I was pushing the thought out of my mind; I honestly believed there was no way I could have cancer.

After a couple of months the lump was still there, so I finally decided to get it checked. I had some tests done, and of course it’s never a good sign when the doctor tells you he or she wants to do further testing. But still, I was thinking no, it can’t be cancer.

My husband and I were together in the waiting room when I went to see the doctor after the last test results. We were joking around and planning the rest of our day. Life was normal. I wasn’t nervous about the news at all. Then the doctor informed us that I had a very aggressive form of breast cancer and it was in stage three. I needed surgery right away, followed by chemotherapy and possibly radiation.

I was totally blindsided by the news. It was like someone had knocked the wind out of me. I went completely numb. I felt my husband squeeze my hand, and in my head are the words, “in sickness and in health.” Talk about putting your vows into practice.

At that time I knew very little about cancer, and what I did know involved death. I didn’t feel sick. In fact, I felt totally healthy. I didn’t know how to process the fact that I wasn’t.

As we drove home, I became increasingly devastated. We got on the phone some people close to me. It was just a diagnosis, they emphasized to me. Reconnect with your purpose. Everything was still ahead of me. They recommended calling Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and I ended up going there for a second opinion.

I had seen commercials for CTCA® but had never paid attention. It wasn’t on my radar. When I called, the person I spoke with was so friendly and kept telling me that CTCA would take care of everything for me—finding out about insurance coverage, scheduling appointments, and whatever else I needed.

When I went for an initial visit, I was amazed. Walking into CTCA was like entering a five-star hotel. I decided to pursue treatment at CTCA.

The first step of my care was a mastectomy on my right breast and the removal of 19 lymph nodes. That procedure was followed by chemotherapy for six months, with two drugs the first three months and another drug for three more months, and then seven weeks of radiation.

I lived in Tulsa, Oklahoma, at the time, so I drove to CTCA for treatments and then returned home. The first round of chemotherapy was very difficult. I was nauseous and extremely weak. I couldn’t get out of bed. Someone from CTCA called two or three days after each treatment round to see how I was doing. When I developed nausea, they prescribed a different anti-emetic medication to try. I experienced tingling in my fingers and the soles of my feet, like an itch that you can’t scratch. Their solution for this problem was soaking my feet in ice-cold water or hot water.

When all the treatments were completed, the diagnostic tests showed no visible signs of cancer. I have been in remission ever since.  

What I valued the most during my treatment was the love I felt. When people are happy to see you and they treat you like royalty, it makes a huge difference in your well-being. Cancer can make a person feel like an oddball. The last thing anyone needs is to feel like a burden or like your doctor or nurse doesn’t have time for you. Being treated so lovingly flipped a switch in me. It helped me look forward in a positive way. The loving support of my husband, family and friends was also huge in this turnaround.

I also looked inside myself for strength. I knew that I still had work to do here, and that helped me through the harder days. Today I work as a wildlife biologist tracking bats and protecting bat species on the federal endangered species list. I am also a captain in the military and I do holistic health coaching for cancer survivors.

It was hard not being active, so I worked at regaining my strength as soon as I could. A few years after my diagnosis, I placed second in my first body building competition. My husband and I are starting to plan our future now.

After my diagnosis and during treatment, I needed help working through the mental challenges. Staying intact requires constant attention. With chemotherapy, the side effects come in cycles with the treatment. I would feel ill the first week after, then better by the second, and just when I was back to normal it was time for the next round. It was frustrating, and dealing with the ups and downs needed constant attention. I turned to Scripture, drawing strength in particular from the phrase, “a merry heart doeth good like a medicine but a broken spirit crushes the bone.” I noticed that my physical state was very connected to my emotional and mental state. If I was happy on the inside, I felt better. On my bad days mentally, I felt ten times worse in my body. 

When a doctor informs you that you’re very sick, it can feel as if you’ve lost control. I discovered that finding small things that I could have control over really helped. It could be as simple as a craft project, but something that I could do on my own. I also found little things throughout the day to be thankful for. There are plenty waiting to be found.

Learning about breast cancer and its treatment was also very helpful. I became knowledgeable about what was going on inside my body. That investment made me feel like I was part of my own care, which was very helpful.

Patients who’d come through the other side inspired me. When I was in my worst moments, these patients were the light at the end of the tunnel. 

And CTCA was incredible. They knew my husband by name and they welcomed him just like they welcomed me. They ask about him when I go for my annual follow-up visits. Thanks to CTCA, I picture a moment in life that can be overcome. 

In 1994, when I was in my early 20s, I had a mole removed from my lower calf. After the simple procedure, I never thought about it again. Sixteen years later, in 2009, a small growth appeared just above my right collarbone at the base of my neck. A laboratory examination of biopsy revealed not only that the tumor was malignant, but that I had stage IV metastatic melanoma.

The surgeon referred me to a former colleague of his at a prestigious cancer center. There, the experts would review my diagnostic records and recommend a treatment program. But that straightforward plan turned out to be much harder to follow than I expected.

The oncologist told me that his plan of attack would be local lymph node resection combined with high-dose radiation. Although I had not done any research about treatment options on my own, I was not ready to agree to this plan, so I decided instead to return home to discuss the proposed approach with my family.

Back at home, I began fervently researching other options. The spouse of my cousin was a patient at the Oklahoma location of Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and at their urging, I decided to call. Soon enough, I was off to Tulsa for an initial consultation. I felt comfortable immediately and knew that I wanted to be treated there.

Interestingly, a PET/CT scan taken at CTCA® showed no evidence of cancer in the right neck/shoulder region at that time. Led by Dr. Ted Pollock, my Care Team came up with a plan that I was ready to try. I was treated with chemotherapy. In 2012, an oral treatment for metastatic melanoma became available, and I have been taking this drug since its approval.

The treatment has come with some side effects. I’ve experienced rashes, hair loss, dry skin and joint discomfort, along with fatigue that was at times quite severe. But with the help of my Care Team, I have been able to persist with the treatment. The side effects became less severe over time, and I have also been motivated by the normal PET/CT results that I have had for more than a year.

Today, I am continuing with the oral medication and am feeling well. The doctors, nurses and other professionals at CTCA have paid such careful attention to my health since I began treatment there. The patient-centered approach carries a level of commitment that I have found to be important.

From the concierge to the cafeteria, from the transportation to the infusion lab, I have never felt alone at CTCA. Sometimes these small details feel just as healing as the medication and I am equally grateful for both. 

In the fall of 2001, I was praying for a change in my life that would allow me to work from home and spend more time with my family. That prayer was answered in a way I wasn't expecting.

My wife, Julie, was still recovering from an operation she had in 1998 to take care of a giant brain aneurysm, and I wanted to be home more.

So that my wife would be taken care of in case something happened to me, I purchased a life insurance policy that August. I was deemed fit and healthy by the insurance company after blood tests and a physical.

In late October, I started feeling very tired all the time. I was cramping badly when I ate anything, which shortly became all of the time, not just when I ate. I shrugged it off as best I could and assumed it was stress from the combination of work, caring for my wife and parenting three daughters and a son.

Because I felt progressively worse as time went by, in January 2002, I decided to get a checkup from my internist, whom I had known for 10 years. Once again, blood tests were taken, as well as most internal exams, top to bottom. Since all tests came back as normal, aside from some minor digestive problems, I was diagnosed with having "food amnesia.” My doctor believed it was nothing more than I was just eating more than I was willing to admit to her or myself.

At the time, I had a brother-in-law who had been misdiagnosed with a very aggressive form of cancer, which was in his lungs and elsewhere in his body. I told this to my doctor and asked her to please try some other tests. She said she would order a CT scan, one of the tests that had not been done yet.

Ten days later, I received a call at 9:30 at night from my doctor telling me that a baseball-sized mass had shown up on a CT scan of my lower chest. She said it could possibly be an infected abscess, but that I should make an appointment with an oncologist at a cancer facility near me in Illinois to get a second opinion. The only word that stuck out in that conversation was the word “cancer.”

By this time, it was March 2002. Five months had passed, and I was getting weaker by the day and hurting more all the time. I had seen a local oncologist, who confirmed that I had cancer, but was unsure of the type. He scheduled a needle biopsy, and after two attempts to obtain a biopsy, I was referred to a surgeon.

The surgeon recommended that I have the tumor removed at the time of the biopsy. However, it was wrapped around my aorta, and therefore, was unable to be removed during the surgery. 

As time went by, I became devastated, exhausted and weaker by the day. I knew that if it was cancer, it wasn't going to take a break, go on vacation or take the day off. And I still wasn't actively fighting it, just diagnosing it. I wanted to get moving quickly and get a treatment plan together. That evening, I was talking to a friend, who gave me the number to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), where he had gone when he had cancer. He encouraged me to give them a try.

The next day, which, by this time, was late in April 2002, I called CTCA® and spoke to an Oncology Information Specialist. He patiently listened as I told him my situation. He took my insurance info and said he would call back that afternoon. Within a few hours, he called back and said that he would FedEx an information packet about CTCA and that I should be receiving it the next day. When that truck pulled up the next day, I knew at that moment that CTCA was the hospital I should be dealing with. This organization finally understood my sense of urgency.

I called CTCA right away and made an appointment. Within the next week, I was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, staged, given my treatment options and assured that I was not alone in my fight. I was on a team now—which I was to be a big part of—and we were going to do everything possible to beat this disease.

My treatment consisted of six rounds of immunotherapy and CHOP chemotherapy regimen over the next eight months, followed by five days of radiation for five weeks. At last, I was physically fighting my cancer. It tried to overtake me, but with the support I was receiving from my care team at CTCA, I felt I was going to win. I did experience some side effects, including neuropathy and pain. I used supportive therapies, including massage, chiropractic care and mind-body medicine—specifically laughter therapy and music therapy—to help manage these challenges and maintain a healthy mind. And on May 21, 2003, a year after my port was put in, I learned that I no longer had any evidence of disease.

I have now been an aftercare partner on the healing team of my health care management for many years. This is one of my favorite quotes that I like to share with other patients: When I got tired of being called a patient or a survivor, I started calling myself “the lead partner on the healing team of my health care management.” In other words, I was empowering myself to lead my healing team that helped me manage my health better.

I joined the CTCA Cancer Fighters® Care Net program to become active in helping other patients recognize their own strengths in their fight, as well as offer insight on CTCA and its philosophy of healing. I have made life-long friends with other cancer fighters through the Cancer Fighter patient-to-patient network.

Because of the philosophy that is cultivated throughout CTCA, I have been able to become an ambassador for hope, faith and belief that just because someone tells you that you have cancer, it doesn't mean your days of greatness are over. I also walk in marathons to raise money and awareness for the fight against blood cancers.

I feel like I am a blessed man. As I went through my cancer journey, I didn’t focus on the negativity of the cancer. I’ve gotten so much more out of cancer than it ever took from me. I thank CTCA for helping me to realize that I have the ability to be enabled in life—not disabled—because of cancer.

When I was 56 years old, a coworker in the police force in Jackson, Mississippi, had a wellness physical required by our health insurance. He had great things to say about the physician he saw, and he urged me to see her. I was hesitant because I was not sure I could afford the cost of a physical, but when he explained the examination was part of our insurance, I decided he was right. It was time for a physical.

The doctor asked me when I last had a physical, and I told her I’d never really had one. Whenever I had gone in for check-ups, I just had my reflexes, blood pressure and urine checked. She thought I should have a colonoscopy. Then she gave me blood tests, an eye exam and a kidney exam, and by the end of the physical, she told me my PSA score was high and I needed to see an oncologist.

I had the colonoscopy, and three weeks later, I went to see a local oncologist. The oncologist needed to do a biopsy in order to understand whether my PSA score was cause for alarm. I had the biopsy a few weeks later, and several days afterward, I received a letter from the oncologist’s office telling me he wanted me to come in. A few days later, he informed me I had prostate cancer and told me my options. He recommended surgery. If the cancer had spread, he’d continue treatment.

At first, I told no one about my diagnosis, only my wife and one friend. But as I started telling some friends at work, word spread, and suddenly, I was being given all kinds of information and support. All that information made me realize I did not want to have surgery. I wanted to take a different route.

I saw a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call, figuring it was a start at getting a second opinion. I called at 11 o’clock one night and was amazed when someone answered. Within a matter of days, my insurance was approved for me to receive treatment at CTCA®, and I had a flight scheduled to Chicago to visit the hospital in the city’s northern suburbs.

When I met my doctor at CTCA, he asked me what I was looking for. I told him I wanted to be treated without surgery, and he told me that I’d come to the right place for comprehensive options. After we came up with my treatment plan, he gave me leuprolide injections to help stop the cancer from spreading.

Three months later, I returned to CTCA to undergo several weeks of radiation treatment. I also followed the suggestions made by the naturopathic oncology provider who was part of my care team. I tried to take advantage of all the services offered at CTCA, like acupuncture, massage and mind-body techniques. These don’t replace medical care, but I felt like they helped with side effects.

At CTCA, the treatments went well and did not cause pain, and I met so many people. I started hanging around the kitchen a lot, and the chef took time to talk with me about cooking and even gave me a cookbook she’d written and some of her culinary books from when she was in school. And when I started to want to help other people facing a cancer diagnosis, the various members of the Cancer Fighters® team took me under their wings to provide training about how to be there for others.

Today, I am in recovery and am no longer undergoing treatment for cancer. I try to eat healthy and exercise, and live life to the fullest. Going through treatment changed my outlook on life. I learned how much I enjoy speaking with other people as a way to give back. I feel like I’ve been given a chance to help others, and I want to honor that.

When I speak with people, I always recommend considering adding a cancer policy to their health insurance and having an annual physical. And for people who are diagnosed with cancer, I always recommend getting a second, and even a third, opinion about their treatment.

My wife of 15 years, Katrina, has been my caregiver throughout my treatment. Now we are planning trips, thinking about where we can go cycling and enjoying life together more than ever. I also know when I retire, volunteering at CTCA for at least one month every year is something I definitely want to do.

I was 40 years old when I noticed it: a lump in my breast. It was October, and I’d just finished a training course for young mothers that included a demonstration of how to do a breast self-exam. There was a fake breast so everyone could learn what a lump felt like. After the course I did my own self-exam and noticed the lump right away.
At first I thought, or hoped, the mass would just disappear on its own. When that didn’t happen, I went for a mammogram at a local hospital near our home south of Chicago. I had never had a mammogram before, so I had no baseline comparison and the results came back as inconclusive. The clinicians told me that I had dense breast tissue, which could make cancer difficult to see. But even though some friends cautioned me to not be dismissive, I thought I was in the clear. Then I received a letter from the hospital suggesting that I follow-up with a surgeon for a biopsy.

So we went to a breast center at a nearby teaching hospital for the biopsy. This time the results were conclusive: The lump was cancerous. 

I knew that I needed medical care, but I also knew that I did not want to go to a hospital that did not include nutrition and other integrative approaches as part of its program. So, I went to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). The medical oncologist I met with acknowledged the value of nutrition, noting that CTCA® incorporated this aspect into care, but then explaining that I was young and had an aggressive form of cancer, and that it was time to start treatment. His attitude, his tone, and his acceptance of my point of view made me feel confident about being under his care.

Initially, it was recommended that I undergo three rounds of chemotherapy to shrink the tumor enough that it could be removed during a lumpectomy. But after one round of treatment, the tumor had already decreased in size enough for the surgery.

My care team had originally suggested a mastectomy, but I insisted on a lumpectomy. I was happy that they acknowledged my request and agreed to move forward with my preferred treatment plan. My surgeon, upon hearing my decision, told me that he thought he could get clear margins—that is, remove the cancer entirely—with just a lumpectomy. He knew that was what I really wanted and he went the extra mile to comply. Because the cancer was metastatic, I had eight months of chemotherapy after the surgery. The infusions were done over three to four days every three weeks, an approach that was slower than the typical infusion method that made the treatment more tolerable for me.

In early 2001, I had radiation treatment, which completed my treatment. Chemotherapy was difficult. I met with naturopathic oncology providers, who suggested ways to help diminish the side effects. I also received nutritional advice, and much-needed pastoral support, which was a great encouragement to me.

The compassion of the staff at CTCA helped me through this time. They were so caring and constantly looking out for my well-being. Throughout my treatment, I always felt that my voice mattered. Cancer can make you feel like you’ve lost control of your life. Knowing that what I said mattered to my Care Team made a huge difference to me. And in a way, there was a blessing to the temporary loss of independence that comes with treatment side effects. I learned to let people help me, which was a vital lesson for life.

After finishing my treatment, I decided to refocus my work so that I could follow the same schedule as my children. I had always been an educator, but after treatment I began working solely with the public school system. I also returned to traveling, hiking and other outdoor activities that I love.

Today I feel restored and healthy. I return to CTCA once a year for a check-up, and have been lucky enough to attend several Celebrate Life® ceremonies there. I have seen my son graduate from college, my daughter get married and my husband and I celebrated 30 years of marriage with a trip to Hawaii. I am so thankful for these moments, and also just simply to be alive. I wanted to live so that I could be a mother to my children, and I have been blessed with the opportunity to do exactly that. Now, I consider it my essential duty to encourage others on their journey to revitalized health.

The Puyallup Tribe of Indians has lived along the shores of Puget Sound in Washington State for thousands of years. This is also where my husband, David, and I call home. I live on the reservation, and I am the Tribal Employment Rights Office Director, helping with employment, training and enforcing Indian laws. My dad was in the Army, and when I was young, we moved around a lot. So I love having a stable place with friends and family nearby.

In early 2010, I spent a lot of time going to the doctor. I was experiencing many symptoms, but the main issue was that my stomach was distended. It almost gave the appearance that I was pregnant. I sought help for weight loss, and I focused on healthy eating. But the issue continued until it was finally determined that I had a cyst.

I went in for surgery in February, and all went well. He removed the cyst and one ovary. The surgeon left the other ovary because it was unaffected. Test results came back negative for cancer, so I figured we had taken care of the issue.

I had healed from the surgery, and life went on as usual. In October 2011, my family and I went on a vacation to Disneyland. Before we went on the trip, my side started hurting, but I wasn’t going to let it stop me. However, when I was there, I was in so much pain that I got a scooter for the rest of the trip so I could stay mobile and move around. I didn’t want this to ruin our vacation.

I saw my primary care doctor when we got back, and I was scheduled for an ultrasound. I was still in a lot of pain on my right side, so I went in that same day to talk to my surgeon. I knew in my heart that something very similar was happening, and I wanted to address it as quickly as possible. When I got to the appointment, the doctor already had the results back from the ultrasound: I had another tumor.

In November 2011, the same surgeon who performed my first surgery completed my second one. This tumor was bigger than the first. In fact, it was so massive that it had ruptured. My surgeon also removed my other ovary. The tissue was tested, and the next morning, I learned it was cancerous.

My connection to my body is more than physical. I believe that the mind, body and spirit are all intertwined. I knew I wanted integrative therapies as part of my care. I saw my chiropractor later that November, and she told me her mom went to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) for cancer treatment. She told me about how they combine conventional cancer treatment with supportive therapies like nutrition and naturopathic medicine to address side effects. I was intrigued, because I was very interested in treating the whole body. I called CTCA® and spoke to an Oncology Information Specialist. I spent well over an hour telling my story and hearing about what CTCA offered. My admission process began immediately, and I had appointments for me to meet with the appropriate doctors at CTCA near Phoenix the following week.

The moment I walked through the front door of CTCA I felt surrounded and overwhelmed with kindness and love. I was greeted at the door and accompanied everywhere I needed to go. I knew right away I wanted to treat here.

I met with my medical oncologist to discuss my options. He explained my test results to me. After educating me about my options and the pros and cons of each, he told me the ultimate treatment decision was up to me.

I decided to start chemotherapy right away. I just felt like I’d found a compassionate and caring option. They also treated my "whole person," addressing various side effects with nutrition and naturopathic medicine, along with emotional and spiritual support. At CTCA, I didn’t see one doctor; I saw a team of doctors and clinicians who consulted one another about my diagnosis and treatment plan. I wasn’t a patient who would be just another medical number or cancer type; I was treated as an individual.

I completed my chemotherapy in May 2012. During the treatment, I took advantage of every supportive therapy that was offered at CTCA. I believed that everything was there to help me, and I wanted to take advantage of it, from pastoral care to acupuncture.

After completing chemotherapy, I went back to work part-time so it wasn’t as overwhelming. I returned to CTCA every six months for check-ups. Then in December 2016, we found elevated cancer markers. After more tests, it was determined that my cancer was back.

When I found out my cancer had returned, I felt at peace knowing that I am in good hands at CTCA. I know I am in the best place in the world for me, and I wouldn’t even consider going to treat anywhere else. So I worked with my medical oncologist and care team to come up with a personalized treatment plan. I started chemotherapy in January 2017.

In July 2017, I had surgery to remove a tumor in my abdomen. At this point, I don’t know what my future holds. But I read the Bible, and I am keeping the faith that God will take care of me.

My family has been a wonderful support, and my husband is my rock. As I prepare for the next phase of my journey, I know that I am in the right place. I am planning for my future, and I look forward to the many milestones ahead of me.

My journey with cancer began out of the blue. One day, in the middle of a routine day, I realized that I had not had a mammogram since I had turned 40. Five years had passed since I’d taken this important preventive step.

A week after having the mammogram, I had an appointment with my primary care physician, who had the results of that imaging test. I had nearly forgotten about it. “There’s something here and we have to send you for a biopsy,” she told me.

We live in Illinois, and I decided to make an appointment at the Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) hospital here, because of the focus on cancer. A few days later I had a breast biopsy at CTCA®. When I returned to the clinic the next day, my oncologist at the time, who has since retired, asked if my husband could join us. That question alerted me that the news might be concerning. I asked my oncologist to just tell me the results. “It’s cancer,” he said.  

My first thought was of my three grandchildren. “I want to see them grow up,” I said to myself. I left CTCA and headed straight for my mother’s house. My mother had always been a pillar of strength for me, and that day was no different. I was experiencing a flood of emotions, and she helped prop me back up.

A few days later our three children, who are all adults, came to our home so I could tell them about the diagnosis. As it happened, my uncle from Puerto Rico was also visiting at that time. I could see and feel right away the amount of support I would have as I proceeded with treatment.

My care team at CTCA recommended a mastectomy followed by chemotherapy. I trusted their suggestions, but also wanted my family to be part of the decision-making process. I asked my doctors about including my family in considering my next steps, and their response was that yes, they absolutely wanted my family there if that is what I wanted. My children were part of all the discussions and decisions. It meant a great deal that my doctors were willing to include them because our family is close and we include one another in important decisions. My doctors respected that and made space for everyone. They answered all our questions and we never felt that the doctors were rushing us.

I underwent a mastectomy followed by chemotherapy treatment. The surgical procedure went smoothly, but the recovery was a bit bumpy. But the nurses were attentive and made sure that I was taken care of. They also brought me a cassette tape to assist with managing the pain, which included breathing exercises and other soothing guidance. After surgery and chemotherapy, I was also able to proceed with breast reconstruction fairly quickly. 

The people I met at CTCA were welcoming and friendly to me. There was always someone to talk to—the cooks, the driver and other staff members. If I needed something, then there was always someone willing to help me get it. As someone dedicated to her faith, I was also thankful for the spiritual support.

When I was diagnosed in 1996, I met a five-year survivor. She was at CTCA to participate in a Celebrate Life® ceremony, which CTCA holds for those celebrating that vital five-year mark. I watched her plant a tree in recognition of this milestone and told myself that I would be doing the same thing in five years.

In 2001, I participated in that same ceremony. My family and closest friends were there with me—really, we were there together—and I was able to thank my doctors and everyone who supported me through my treatment.

When I was diagnosed, I worried about missing life with my three grandchildren. Today I have six grandchildren and six great grandchildren and it is a gift to be part of their lives.

My faith also helped keep me strong, and still guides me today. There are moments when I know I need to share my story with a stranger, and I seek opportunities to help others. I am very glad to be able to assist in any way that I can.

In 2010, I retired from my work at the College of Lake County, enabling me to participate more fully with the Patient-to-Patient Network at CTCA. As a Cancer Fighters® member, I attend walks and other activities promote cancer research and awareness. The Cancer Fighters Care Network allows us survivors to give back to the community, a small way to say thank-you for the incredible gift we have been given: the gift of life. 

I had been feeling discomfort for about a year before having the colonoscopy that would lead to a diagnosis of cancer in December 2010. When I was first diagnosed, I was worried about who would take care of my daughter, and I thought it was the end of my world. But then I began to see things differently. “It’s the beginning of my world,” I thought. “My world is just going to be a little bit different than how I had it planned.” With the help of Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), my world after cancer has turned out to be a better than I’d planned.

After a family trip to Italy, I knew I needed to see a doctor to address the symptoms I’d been feeling—abdominal pain, a feeling of fullness, some blood in my stools. I had a colonoscopy in Denver, and my doctor, seeing evidence of cancer in my colon, recommended that I see an oncologist immediately.

My husband and I knew from the start that no matter what the first oncologist told us, we would seek a second opinion. We were very interested in finding a facility where I could receive complementary medicine approaches, not only conventional treatment. My husband came across CTCA®, and we called the toll-free number to inquire about obtaining a second opinion. Even from that first phone call, I felt well cared for. There were no voice prompts to wade through or shuttling from one person to the next. Within two weeks of my diagnosis, my husband and I were on our way to Phoenix for a second opinion at CTCA’s Western Regional Medical Center (Western).

From the very start, the services were superior to anything I’d experienced prior. Someone was waiting for us at the airport, and everything was arranged for us. A schedule was left under the door to my room telling us each doctor I would be meeting with, there was even food provided in the refrigerator in the room. It was like checking into a hotel, but with exceptional medical care.

The day after we arrived, a whole team of healthcare professionals was waiting to answer questions I had about my diagnosis and treatment. I had an oncologist, a surgeon, a naturopathic clinician and a nutritionist.

One of the more challenging aspects of my cancer was that there were cancer cells in both lobes of my liver. No one I had spoken with at that point had addressed what could be done to remove cancer from my liver. My surgeon told me that he thought he could perform the necessary colon and liver surgeries together. He said this procedure could be done laparoscopically, which would shorten my healing time. It gave me so much hope to be told that.

After meeting with the care team and being exposed right away to CTCA’s Mother Standard® of care, I had a CT scan and was walked through a proposed treatment plan a day or so later. Dr. Milad provided me with my treatment plan. I made my choice to be treated at CTCA. 

Once I was aware of the help available at CTCA, I was ready to face the journey ahead of me. All of my fears and worries about traveling somewhere unfamiliar for treatment were dispelled, because what I found instead was a place where everything was organized for me. All of my doctors were in one place. Everything was where I needed it to be. As a dental hygienist, I know what it is like to genuinely care for patients, and that was what I felt at CTCA. There were people taking care of me who knew something about me, and who would be there to walk me through every step of the way, until I could walk by myself.

The first part of my treatment was chemotherapy to help shrink the tumor. After the tumor, I underwent surgery to remove the tumor from my colon, as well as laparoscopic surgery on the liver.

Following surgery, there were some remaining cancer cells on the right lobe of the liver. So my treatment plan was adjusted to incorporate four weeks of radiation following surgery. I also saw a doctor locally, in Denver, because of the appearance of cancer cells in my lungs. After the radiation was completed, I had additional rounds of chemotherapy every two weeks.

Because I was not able to have chemotherapy and radiation together, I had a six-week break from treatment where I was able to exercise, eat well, and let my body heal. I had acupuncture, massage, and organic food prepared for me every day. It was really good care. I worked with a nutritionist and a naturopathic clinician throughout all of these treatments. I also saw a chiropractor and an acupuncturist at CTCA. These individuals helped ensure that my nutrition needs were met and that my immune system was as strong as possible.

Another positive aspect of my treatment was that everything was explained to me. Before any procedure was done—chemotherapy, an imaging scan, anything—the person administering the treatment made sure I understood what was happening. My husband and I even met with a physicist who explained how the radiation therapy worked. 

Today, I am feeling great. My health is good, and I feel fabulous mentally and physically.

I return to CTCA every three months. And the truth is, I get excited to go and see everyone there. When I tell this to friends, they ask me how I can look forward to going back to a hospital. But the caregivers there are my family now. They are the people who carried me through so many difficult moments. I wish I could be there for them as they were there for me.

The truth is, I was afraid to complete my care. I wasn’t sure how to step away from the warm, safe environment of CTCA and back into the routine of my life. And my support network at CTCA paid attention to this concern and reassured me. “You can do this,” they told me. “This is what you’ve been waiting for.” They gave me information about how to take care of myself, and made sure I knew when I would return for a check-up.

Many acquaintances have said to me that if they ever need medical care, they just want the best doctor, they don’t mind how compassionate he or she is. But I disagree. I think kindness and compassion are vital parts of the treatment and healing process. That individual is making decisions for me. So I want him or her to be compassionate and knowledgeable. That is what I found at CTCA, and this experience changed my understanding of quality care.

In 2012, when I was 60 years old, I began feeling intermittent pain on my left side. I’d been treated for breast cancer years earlier, but did not know at the time that I had the genetic abnormality known as BRCA 2. This abnormality is associated with pancreatic cancer as well as breast and ovarian cancer. I had some lower back pain, which I thought was due to driving, and had also lost my appetite.

I spoke with my internist and asked if the pain could be related to my gallbladder. She said no, because the gallbladder is on the right side, not the left. I told her I felt the discomfort under my left rib cage, and she told me that the pancreas is on the left side, but that she thought the pain was likely due to driving. At the time, I was an Account Executive with an Environmental Service company. I covered the Southeast and drove on average 800 to 1000 miles a week.

Although, she did believe it was nothing to be worried about she did a test for pancreatic enzymes, but the results of this test showed the enzyme levels to be normal, not elevated. She suggested that I see my gynecologist to have my left ovary examined (I had my right ovary removed when I was in my late 20s and had a solid cyst that engulfed my ovary.) She also recommended having a colonoscopy with a gastroenterologist. 

I asked my internist what her next step would be if the examinations of my ovary and colon did not identify the cause of the pain, and she told me if that happened, she would do a CT scan. Eight weeks later, I still had no diagnosis. I went to see my internist again for blood tests and told that the pain had worsened and was now in my stomach, and that I’d lost more weight. She ordered a CT scan for me. Two days later, she called to tell me there were lesions on my pancreas.

I began treatment with an oncologist near my home in South Carolina. I wanted to make sure to get a second opinion. I knew I had just one chance to get the right treatment.

In December of 2012 I called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and spoke with Matt Owens, a representative based in Chicago. Within two weeks I was at CTCA in Tulsa for a week of meetings with my Care Team.

The chemotherapy that I’d started in South Carolina continued at CTCA. I had six rounds in total of a regimen known as FOLFIRINOX. The goal of treatment was to shrink the cancer to the point where it was operable. After six rounds of chemotherapy, a PET scan showed that the tumor in the tail of the pancreas was gone, but that there was cancer in the abdominal lymph nodes.

After an additional six rounds of chemotherapy, a PET scan showed no visible signs of cancer. My surgeon, Dr. Greeff, conferred with several other oncologists, who agreed that I would likely benefit from surgery. The procedure was risky, but I had no other health risks like smoking or being overweight, so it made sense to go ahead with it.

In September of 2013, I underwent a 10-hour sub-Whipple procedure, which removed 60 percent of my pancreas, all of my spleen, my left adrenal gland, my left fallopian tube, my right ovary and the covering of my stomach. I also had intraoperative radiation therapy during the surgery.

The treatments were difficult to get through at times. My hands became numb and I had very painful mouth sores that lasted throughout chemotherapy. After the six hours of chemotherapy infusion, there were times when I could not make it to my room unassisted.

But the truth is, I never had to make it to my room unassisted. There was always someone there to help. My Care Team did their best to help reduce the pain of the mouth sores and to provide comfort in whatever way they could.

Today I am feeling great. I have had three additional PET scans since completing chemotherapy and surgery, all of which showed no visible signs of cancer. I return to Tulsa every four months for follow-up visits, and I am preparing for additional preventative surgery.

I can take long walks, go to yoga classes, and work out with free weights. I am starting to think again about the trip to Europe that I put on hold. I meet friends for lunch. And I’m hoping to get my golf swing back to where it was before I was diagnosed.

I had one grandchild before I was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, and now I have two—the second one was born the day after I finished chemotherapy. My family keeps me motivated—I need to be here to watch my grandchildren grow up—as does my simple love of life. I have a long list of adventures still to come.

My first experience with cancer was in 2004, at 47 years old. I was diagnosed with stage II breast cancer in my left breast, and I had a mastectomy, reconstructive surgery, and began taking a daily Aromasin pill, post therapy. Two years later, ductal carcinoma in situ, or DCIS, also known as stage 0 breast cancer, was detected in my right breast. I chose mastectomy and reconstructive surgery of the right breast, hoping to avoid further spread of the cancer and additional treatment. Several years later, in 2009, a sharp pain near my collarbone alerted me to a new problem, breast cancer, now in the chest wall. This time, my treatment consisted of the removal of my right reconstructed breast, six treatments of chemotherapy and one year of trastuzumab intravenously, 28 treatments of radiation, and to continue the exemestane pill as post-therapy maintenance. In light of these prior diagnoses, I was on task with scheduled exams and routine check-ups.

After being given the “all clear” for active cancer, during a routine exam, I mentioned to my oncologist that I had sporadic pains in my legs and I was often tired. My oncologist referred me immediately for a full-body bone scan. After seeing the results of that test, he ordered a CT scan, which confirmed what he saw on the body scan: a mass on the sternum, spots on the lungs and liver, later confirmed as metastatic breast cancer.

The Georgia location of Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) had not been open during my earlier cancer treatments. One year prior to my latest diagnosis, I started seeing commercials about CTCA® coming to Newnan, which is only about 20 minutes from my home. I was drawn to the integrative approach, which allowed the whole person to be treated—mind, body and spirit. I was excited to know that people going through cancer would have this facility as an option. Little did I know that I would enter the doors as a patient. Prior to the 2013 diagnosis, I’d already done the research and knew I needed a spirit focus and positive mind set to assist my body for the fight of a lifetime. I needed an environment that empowered me to “Hold On, Pray Expectantly.” I needed to be treated at CTCA.

Easy and difficult

When my husband and I arrived at CTCA for my initial consultation, I looked up at him and said, “I belong here.” And when my oncologist, Dr. McKnight, introduced treatment options to me by saying, “If you decide to be treated here…” I responded right away that my choice had already been made.

The difference at CTCA was obvious. Everyone who had anything to do with my care made me feel as though I was their only patient, even though I observed them treat each patient with the same demeanor. I did not have a long wait for test results as the tests were done in one location.

Still, the treatment was difficult at first. I needed aggressive chemotherapy because the disease had become aggressive. I was disappointed when I began experiencing side effects like cramps, fatigue and achiness. I spoke with my Care Manager and she booked me for massage, acupuncture and physical therapy sessions. I began scheduling these integrative services on a regular basis and they made all the difference in my response to the side effects of treatment.

There were other challenges during this time. My husband had to work in North Carolina unexpectedly and so he was not with me for the majority of my treatments. This situation was one of the most difficult aspects of my journey with cancer. But at the same time, it transformed me for the better. I learned to trust God, to lean on my faith and I came to realize my own inner strength. I also learned to accept help from others and to be more grateful for the support I received from many loved ones including my church family.

The adverse effects of the chemotherapy accrued over time and I have some speech problems and also some cognitive issues. But working with a speech therapist and a physical therapist at CTCA has helped enormously. And I make sure to focus my life on what I can do, not what I can’t do.

Cancer survivors are often asked about how they have celebrated, what special events they’ve held or joined since completing treatment. But the truth is, every moment is a big moment now. I’m grateful for every morning, for each one is an opportunity to begin the first day of the rest of a beautiful life, an opportunity to make amends, to live with more acceptance and gratitude, to rewrite the script and live it according to the way I want the story told, by the grace of God.

Today I am continuing with maintenance therapy, taken every three weeks, and I am feeling well. I rest if I need to and I listen to my body. I exercise, take yoga, walk, and watch what I eat. I also pay attention to what I ingest because it all contributes to my health. I meditate every morning, giving my spiritual health equal priority as my physical, and my faith continues to be strengthened.

Through the Cancer Fighters Care Network, I’ve been given an outlet for sharing my story, which has also been healing for me. It gives me one more chance to give back for all I’ve been given.

I was sitting on a couch during a birthday party for my younger sister when I first noticed the lump. It didn’t feel right so I made an appointment with my gynecologist. Because I always made sure to go for annual check-ups, I wasn’t very concerned. I’m 29 years old and many women my age develop cysts; so I assumed this lump was just that, a cyst.

After an initial ultrasound was unclear, I decided to see a general surgeon for a second opinion, and he recommended that I have the lump removed. After weighing the options for myself, I agreed.

That day at work, I received a call from the surgeon asking me to call him and saying I should have him paged if he wasn’t available. The message alarmed me and I knew something wasn’t right. Over the phone, he told me that the lump he’d removed was malignant. I had to clarify what he meant: Was it cancer? When he said the words, “I’m so sorry,” I knew it was cancer. The diagnosis was a huge shock to me, my family and even the doctor.

I began treatment with an oncologist near my home in Racine, Wisconsin. However, I was intrigued by Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), so in August, I chose to go to CTCA® at Midwestern Regional Medical Center in Zion, Illinois, for an initial consultation. Even though I had started treatment at my local hospital, I chose to switch to CTCA in December 2014.

After completing 16 rounds of chemotherapy, I had surgery to remove lymph nodes and tumor margins. Then, my oncologist at CTCA recommended I receive Calypso radiation therapy.

When I came to CTCA, I noticed the care was very different. Having all services in the same building means that pursuing treatment is far less draining than going here and there for different tests. I think the level of comfort here, from all services being together and other aspects, leaves patients more vibrant and energized. And at CTCA, people are friendly and willing to share their experiences with you. 

The side effects have been strong sometimes, but I have received a lot of help with managing problems. The radiation can cause fatigue and also skin sensitivity. I started physical therapy before radiation at the recommendation of my Care Team. Since I used to work in a dentist’s office, I know the importance of preventive care, so the suggestions from my Care Team made sense to me. As a result, I was able to gain movement back relatively fast. Within the first day, I could raise my hand above my head, a movement that can give people trouble during treatment. I was also given lotion to help with skin sensitivity, which helped as a preventive measure.

I had a tingling sensation in my arm that was addressed with physical therapy. My ovaries were suppressed during treatment, which generated some menopause-like symptoms. I have been working with a naturopath and nutritionist to keep my body in balance as much as possible.

I have benefited greatly not only from the excellent care at CTCA but also from the support and love I’ve received from other people. I have been grateful for the spiritual support available at CTCA, and have enjoyed many conversations with the pastoral care team, and also received support from the community in our regular church.

Cancer has taught me the different languages of love; that each person “speaks” their love differently. It was hard to let people help me at first, but I realized how important it was to them, and also to me. Letting go and allowing others to help was a learning experience for me. Now I realize that I couldn’t have done this without the people I love. Today I am feeling better.

It’s weird to say that cancer has been a gift, but in some ways it has been. It has enabled me to understand so much more about life, about myself, and about the people I love. And now I can offer help to others making the same journey. How else would I know to tell people to plug your nose and have a candy when your port is being flushed? That advice is invaluable!

I grew up in Eastern Arizona in a small town called Cibecue on the White Mountain Apache Indian Reservation. My parents were Lutheran teachers and were sent there for their first mission. It is beautiful country, with mountains, pine trees, lakes and all seasons of weather.

Growing up on an Apache reservation, I learned a lot about the earth, the human soul finding balance. I lived there until I was 17, and after graduating high school, I moved to a big city in Kansas to live with my sister. She helped me mature and get my first job.

Family brought me back to Arizona because I wanted to be closer to my parents. I moved to a suburb of Phoenix, where I still live. Then in 2007, my dad was diagnosed with prostate cancer. So I quit my job in medical billing and told my dad he needed to come stay with me and my family, since there was no medical care near the reservation for cancer treatment. I was his caregiver, helping him navigate through his surgery and radiation. I drove him to his appointments and kept his schedule because all of his doctors were in different locations. After treatment, he moved back to the reservation and resumed his full-time work as deputy fire chief.

In 2009, I began experiencing joint pain and swelling. It was strange because I felt like I was mindfully healthy. I had found a balance between exercising, eating right, volunteering and being with my kids.

But I knew something was off, so I went to the doctor and had my thyroid checked. The tests showed nothing abnormal. I continued to get checked out, but none of my tests or check-ups showed an issue. Finally, in 2011, my thyroid levels indicated that I had hypothyroidism. I started taking medication and assumed that I had addressed the problem.

Immediately after starting the drugs, I got a butterfly-shaped rash on my neck. I tried to avoid specific soaps and perfumes, and it would come and go. After six months, my doctor ordered an ultrasound, and I found out I had two nodules. They were so small, you couldn’t feel them or see them. I was referred to an endocrinologist, who did a fine-needle biopsy in the office. I was diagnosed with papillary thyroid carcinoma.

I went home and started doing research. I first read everything I could about my cancer type, including available treatments. I knew a friend who had gone to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), so I decided to take a look at the website. A chat box popped up, and before I knew it, I was on the phone with CTCA®. The Oncology Information Specialist provided me with a lot of information about my cancer type. I was impressed, so my husband and I decided it was worth finding out what CTCA could do to help me.

Within a week, I had an appointment scheduled for CTCA. I couldn’t believe how fast it happened. They got my information and sent for my health records.

From the first evaluation, I knew that I didn’t want to get treatment anywhere else.

I am very in touch with my body, so I knew I wanted whole-person care. I wanted to receive integrative care, and I knew I wanted everything under one roof. I had previously cared for my dad and knew firsthand how difficult it was trying to schedule all the appointments and drive to all the locations. Having a multidisciplinary care team all at one place was important to me.

I was given the choice of a partial or complete thyroidectomy. In August 2012, I decided to undergo a total thyroidectomy. In the surgery, my surgical oncologist took out my thyroid and several lymph nodes.

After about a month of recovery, my voice finally came back. In October, I received radioactive iodine to destroy remaining cells that may have been left after surgery. I was an inpatient at the hospital in isolation to prevent others from being exposed to radiation. It could have taken up to four days for the radiation to be absorbed. My husband sent greeting cards to me each day with words of encouragement. After two days, I was released, feeling excited that my cancer treatment was almost done.

During and after treatment, I used the various supportive therapies available at the hospital. I worked with speech therapists to help improve my speech, swallowing and breathing. Other supportive care services I used included physical therapy, occupational therapy, chiropractic care and massage therapy.

At my follow-up appointment in April 2013, my doctor felt several lymph nodes on the right side of my neck. Tests revealed that my blood work and scans were clear. But my doctor felt strongly that we needed to do an MRI and PET scan. That’s when I found out I had an aggressive form of cancer, and my body did not absorb the radioactive iodine.

I had a right radical neck dissection in June 2013. The surgery took over six hours, and the surgeon had to sever my vocal cord because the tumor was wrapped around it. He warned me that I might not speak again, but I still had a voice. They also removed 45 lymph nodes. Right after surgery, while I was still an in-patient, a massage therapist came to my room. I also had acupuncture for the first time to assist me with pain management.

After recovery, I received external beam radiation therapy, which directs a beam of radiation from outside the body at the cancerous tissue inside the body. The doctor suggested placing a feeding tube just in case I had side effects from treatment. But I really did not want a feeding tube, so the doctor agreed to let me start treatment without one.

It was clear after the first session that the treatment was going to cause me side effects. Integrative care helped with a large lump that resulted from the radiation. My skin started to break down, and I had lymphedema in my neck. I worked with physical therapists who tried different techniques, including myofascial release, acupuncture, massage therapy and tuning forks.

I made it through the seven weeks of treatment, but when the radiation ended, I got worse. At the beginning of October, I needed a feeding tube because I couldn’t swallow and I was constantly vomiting. The feeding tube provided me important sustaining nutrition.

Then I lost my voice. You don’t realize how important your voice is to independence. I had to communicate through text and email because I couldn’t speak. I was not doing well emotionally during this time because I felt I lost my ability to socialize with family and friends. 

Finally, in June 2014, I was at CTCA for a follow-up appointment, and the doctor offered an option to restore my voice. Laryngoplasty injection is a procedure that provides support to a vocal cord. Under general anesthesia, the doctor injected filler into my paralyzed vocal cord. It worked! I’ve only had one injection, and for the nearly three years since, I have been able to talk.  

My voice today isn’t my original voice, but I have a voice. The difference is that my vocal tone is lower. I can’t yell or sing in higher tones, and I can’t talk for a long period of time. But after 10 months without being able to talk, I am so happy to speak again!

I look forward to attending an event at CTCA called Celebrate Life®, for five-year cancer survivors who have treated at CTCA hospitals. I will be attending it in 2017 with my family and my dad, as we celebrate life together.

I got through cancer treatment with the support of my family and friends. CTCA became a second family to me—all the patients, caregivers, doctors and clinicians I met there. They say it takes a village to raise kids. Well, it takes an army to fight cancer. You can’t do it alone. It is a battle on every front. You need to have all available weapons along with soldiers supporting you. My faith was tested, but I came out stronger. God fought for me when I couldn’t.

Because of CTCA, I feel like I have a second chance at life. 

I was 30 years old when I was diagnosed with breast cancer. My family had just come home from vacation, and while I was doing laundry I noticed bloody discharge coming from my left breast. I could feel a mass there, and called my doctor immediately.

My local doctor referred me for a mammogram the following week at a nearby women’s health center. After the mammogram, the specialists there decided to do an ultrasound, but didn’t see anything on the image. They thought I had ductal carcinoma in situ, also referred to as stage 0 breast cancer.

I then had surgery at a hospital in Pensacola, Florida, near our home. The surgeon could see that the tumor was larger than was initially suspected; it was about 4 millimeters. In addition, there were blockages in several ducts. I decided to have a full mastectomy of my left breast, as well as breast reconstruction at the same time.

After six weeks of recovery, I began meeting with oncologists about further treatment. I met with four doctors, and each had a different opinion about my next steps. Treatment guidelines generally start at tumors measuring 5 millimeters, and mine was smaller than that, but still significant enough to measure.

I chose an oncologist to work with and had one round of chemotherapy in December 2012. But the treatment had strong side effects. I had trouble sleeping and severe mood swings. I was also very nauseous. The side effects lasted for about eight days, and I wasn’t sure I could continue on that path.

It was my mother who first called Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). Someone had recommended CTCA to her, and she decided to find out more. She and my husband were my caregivers, and they wanted to make sure I was getting the right care for me. My husband and I have three young children, so life gets pretty busy. Thankfully my mom was on the case and doing the research.

My husband and I were both impressed by what she told us. We talked to an Oncology Information Specialist at CTCA about what CTCA had to offer, and then went for a consultation at the CTCA hospital outside of Atlanta in January 2013.

During that first visit, I was immediately struck by how the care team focused not only on the cancer, but also on my overall health and well-being. Meeting the naturopathic clinician, nutritionist and pastor, along with many other clinicians, showed me they treat the whole person, not just the cancer.

I began treatment at CTCA, traveling there every few weeks to receive trastuzumab (Herceptin), a monoclonal antibody that is specifically for people with HER2-positive breast cancer. I received the medication intravenously. The trastuzumab had few side effects, and problems I mentioned were met with help from my naturopathic clinician or other members of my care team.

For most treatments, I had a caregiver with me. But when I didn’t, a counselor from the Mind-Body Medicine Department accompanied me for appointments. That’s one example of how CTCA has gone above and beyond my expectations throughout my treatment. I’ve never felt like a patient there, I’ve felt like a person. And that’s a big difference. Today I am feeling well. I’ve completed treatment and will continue going to CTCA for check-ups every three months for the next two years.
Knowing what matters

Because I was only 30 years old when I was diagnosed, at first it was hard to believe I had cancer. And it has been difficult to explain to our children what has been happening. But the experience has been eye-opening for me. It has shown me what is important in life, and the people who are most important to me. This past Christmas, I could feel how much I was in a different place compared to a year earlier. During the first round of chemotherapy, I was upset and angry, and could not understand why this was happening to me. But this year, I could see what a blessing it was to spend time with my family.

I credit the mind-body counseling offered at CTCA for helping me transition from angry to grateful. I’ve learned the importance of making time for myself and finding different ways to cope with difficult situations. I’ve also realized the importance of exercising as a way to help me get through struggles.

The staff at CTCA has helped me through, as have my caregivers, who have let me vent and have been there for me. Dr. Randolph, my oncologist at CTCA, is caring and compassionate, and he listens to my concerns, care that I had not found elsewhere. Above all, my husband and children have kept me motivated.               

Going through cancer treatment requires a lot of strength—physical, emotional, and mental. To stay strong, it’s important to have caregivers, both family and healthcare professionals, who continue to see you as a whole person, rather than focusing solely on the disease. I found that kind of care at Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA).

After feeling a sharp pain in my breast one night, I made an appointment to see my primary care physician in my home town of Las Vegas, Nevada. She referred me to a breast specialist in the same building. Two weeks later, a sonogram indicated that I had breast cancer, and a subsequent biopsy confirmed the diagnosis. The disease was at stage II, and my doctor recommended surgery. However, I was troubled because I was not presented with options and I was not ready to rush into a decision. I also saw an oncologist who told me to have a port placed in preparation for chemotherapy, which was not something I’d discussed with the first specialist.

I decided to ask a friend who had been diagnosed with colon cancer a year earlier about her experience with her care. She was treated at the CTCA location in Arizona.

When I arrived at CTCA, I noticed right away that the facility was not like an ordinary hospital. It felt like a resort. Everyone treated my caregiver and I like family. It didn’t smell like a hospital. My schedule was arranged, and I had several doctors come meet with me—they came to me—and explain their treatment plan. They treated me as a whole person. That approach, combined with the ability to see all the different care providers in one location during the same visit, contributed to my decision to be treated at CTCA.

I underwent eight weeks of chemotherapy followed by eight weeks of radiation. I continued to work at the clothing store I manage when I was back in Las Vegas between treatments. A naturopathic clinician suggested supplements that helped counteract some of the side effects of the medications I was taking. My dietitian showed me how empowering it is to eat right, and taught my caregiver what foods to prepare for me while I was going through chemotherapy and afterwards. My mind-body therapist helped me deal with the challenges that arise when coping with a cancer diagnosis. Acupuncture helped ease the neuropathy I was experiencing during chemotherapy, and massage therapy helped reduce aches during that treatment.

At first, I always wanted my caregiver with me when I went for my treatments at CTCA. But today, I don’t need that because the staff there is like my family. When I arrive, they know me. We hug each other, we smile, we call each other by our first names. A patient that I met during my treatment is now one of my best friends. Having this kind of support is invaluable. My care manager, Marcy, and I would exchange e-mails and laughs. I took pictures during my treatment that I would send to the nurses to thank them for helping me through it.

Today, I am a member of the patient support network Cancer Fighters, and I try to meet individually with patients from time to time. It is so important to stay positive. Cancer is your personal fight, and you want to win that fight. That means never giving up, and staying close with your family. At CTCA, the healthcare professionals and entire staff are like family.

One of my sons turned 21 and the other turned 16 since I completed my treatment. My teenager still gives me a kiss goodnight every night and makes sure I make it up the stairs to bed. It was hard for him to watch me going through cancer, and I had done a lot of explaining to him at the time that his job was to not worry, and that if he did his job, I would get healthy and strong. I told him that I was getting the best care and the best treatment, and that I would be okay. I got the best care and treatment at CTCA, and today I am doing better than okay—I am doing great.

The first sign that something was not right was when my menstrual cycle became erratic, which was unusual for me. At first I was told I was menopausal or peri-menopausal. I’d been scheduled for a hysterectomy but had to put that on hold due to work changes. Then my period stopped for a year. My OB/GYN at the time did a biopsy of my cervix and a transvaginal ultrasound, but saw nothing unusual. By the summer of 2015, my period had changed again; now it was occurring every two weeks. A new gynecologist near my home in Florida did see cysts during an ultrasound examination, but the diagnosis was that they were noncancerous.

By October of that year, I had started to become bloated. I gained about 10 pounds. When I visited some relatives early in 2016, they could see something was visibly wrong with me. They wondered if I was pregnant. My back was hurting, too. Still, cancer was the furthest thing from my mind.

On January 11, 2016, I was in so much pain that I had to leave work early, something I never do. I told my husband that I needed to go to the urgent care facility. There, the doctors performed an X-ray immediately and then sent me for a CT scan. Later in the day, I received a phone call telling me I needed to return to the facility so the doctors could speak with me. When two doctors came to see me together, I knew that the diagnosis was bad. They told me I had stage IV ovarian cancer.

The news came as a complete shock. I felt like I’d been given a death sentence. At the same time, I was speechless. I asked the doctors for a copy of my medical records and left.

As soon as we arrived home, I started researching the diagnosis online. I saw that the type of cancer I was diagnosed with was rare (a later clarification showed that the ovarian cancer I had was not rare), but I couldn’t read for more than two minutes. I opened a new browser window on the computer and started looking for an expert gynecologic oncologist.

My sister had been treated for breast cancer twice, so I’d already given thought to where I would go for treatment if that ever happened to me. I’d seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and said to my husband that if I ever get cancer, I want to go there. But when I received the diagnosis, my first and only thought was to find an expert.

When I called CTCA® and spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist named Brian, I felt a sense of confidence. I was hysterical when I called. All I was thinking was that I did not want to die, that I wanted to be alive for my grandchildren. Brian helped me calm down right away. He talked with me about the team-based approach at CTCA and the integrative care model. I asked how soon I could come.

Seven days later, I was on my way to CTCA.  

When I arrived at CTCA, I had malnutrition and needed to start with total parenteral nutrition therapy (TPN). At the same time, my body was filled with fluid. I was told that once the TPN was complete, the fluid needed to be drained so that I could breathe. That draining was done before the treatment began.

Soon I was ready for the first round of chemotherapy. Three weeks later, I had a second round of chemotherapy, and two weeks after that, I had surgery. During my recovery from surgery, I developed an inflamed colon and sought care for that near my home in Florida. I made sure that I was back at CTCA in time for my third round of chemotherapy, which was followed by three more. Then the treatment stopped for three months. When I returned, there was no evidence of disease at that time. Later, cancer did appear again and I resumed treatment, this time with tamofixen, to try to keep the cancer stable.

Throughout these months, the care I received was excellent. When I had an allergic reaction during the first round of chemotherapy, my doctors were right there to handle things. Before and after surgery, I had a prescription nutrition drink to help me stay healthy. When I needed to go to a local hospital for care, Dr. Manahan stayed in contact to make sure she was updated about my condition. Nurses prayed with me before each chemotherapy treatment.

The treatment was intensive, but it was not as difficult as I’d anticipated. I did not experience any vomiting from the chemotherapy. I do have pain in my feet and some numbness, but I was told these will likely fade in time, as will the foggy “chemo brain” feeling. I can live with any of these side effects if it means that I’m alive. 

I was incredibly fortunate to have two support systems by my side: my husband and my CTCA Care Team. I felt safe at CTCA. I was at peace knowing that I was receiving dedicated, personalized care and that my doctors would not give up on me. Everyone I interact with at CTCA treats me like they know me. Even the janitor will stop to chat and ask if you’re okay if he or she sees you looking discouraged.

Cancer is full of unknowns and very scary. I was not educated about my symptoms before my diagnosis. I didn’t know that there were tests I could have had that may have indicated a problem, like the one for CA-125, an antigen in the blood that may increase when ovarian cancer is present. My Care Team at CTCA educated me and helped get me up to speed on what was happening in my body. Knowledge is power, and they were willing to give me that. They empowered me by explaining what was going on. 

My story is one of hope—hope of receiving quality care, hope of having the chance to ask questions, hope of receiving useful responses.

I was also blessed to have my husband as my caregiver. He did everything for me. He has done nothing but support me. And CTCA in turn supported him. Dr. Manahan included him in every discussion about my care, and she inquired regularly about his well-being.

Today I am back at work, taking life day by day. Every spare moment is dedicated to time with my six children and 18 grandchildren.

All women should understand that we are not typically tested for ovarian cancer during routine visits to the OB/GYN. We need to know the symptoms of ovarian cancer so that we can catch it early, which can save lives. If I had known what I know now, I could have been treated earlier. I hope any woman reading this will take this message to heart and make sure to get educated, listen to your body, and, if care is needed, turn to CTCA.

In January 2016, I was busy caring for my sick mother-in-law. I was worn out and tired, and then I started coughing heavily. I have had bronchitis before, and the doctor treated me with medicine, assuming that was the issue. But the cough didn’t go away even after taking several different medications over a couple of months. So, in March 2016, I had a chest X-ray, which led to a procedure to drain two liters of fluid in my lungs. About five weeks later, I was scheduled for another procedure because the fluid returned. At this time, the surgeon noticed abnormal cells and sent them for a biopsy. The results determined that I had stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. I was shocked. No one in my biological family had ever had cancer, and I never smoked. Then I was told I had less than a year to live.

I was admitted to the hospital and stayed for almost a month. I had to have oxygen during that time. When I was released, I went home with two chest tubes and I had a home health nurse coming over to take care of me. My oxygen levels dropped one day, and I was re-admitted to the hospital. When I was eventually deemed healthy, I started my first round of chemotherapy. That’s when I really went downhill. My liver and kidneys shut down, and I was very sick. 

I was at a point where I couldn’t make any decisions, and I had to leave my fate to my family. My mom used to be a nurse at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and my father-in-law worked security there. So my mom and my sister called CTCA® and made all the arrangements for me to go in and have an evaluation. I had seen many of the commercials, and I was very familiar with CTCA, so I was ready to try anything available to me. I also thought that it would be good to be treated somewhere that focused only on cancer.

When I came in May of 2016 for my evaluation, I was immediately admitted to the hospital at CTCA for renal failure, vomiting and fever. While I was an inpatient at CTCA, I was stabilized. Once that happened, I completed my evaluation as an inpatient—my entire care team came to see me in my room. I completed an array of diagnostic tests to determine my cancer type and stage. These test results help formulate my personalized treatment plan. 

After being released from the hospital, my first step as an outpatient was completing chemotherapy. I already had one round at another hospital, and I had four more rounds of chemotherapy at CTCA. Initially, it seemed that I was responding well. I had some side effects, but those were managed by the supportive care therapies offered at CTCA, including naturopathic medicine and nutrition therapy.

Then in July, I met with my medical oncologist. He gave me the news that the chemotherapy was not working. 

At CTCA, I feel like I am never out of options. When one door closes, another one opens. My medical oncologist talked to me about immunotherapy. I hadn’t heard of this option before. I soon found out that immunotherapy uses the body’s immune system to fight cancer cells. The immune system doesn’t always recognize cancer cells as harmful. Immunotherapy drugs alert the immune system about the mutated cancer cells so that my own body can locate and destroy them. I knew I wanted to try it.

I did about six weeks of immunotherapy, and I immediately knew it was working. My oxygen levels were up, my coughing was subsiding, and I overall felt better. Then it was discovered that the cancer had metastasized to my brain.

I underwent targeted radiation to the brain tumors in August 2016. Once recovery was complete, I resumed the immunotherapy in October. It’s amazing to me that my own body can be used to identify and fight the bad cells. I am still in active treatment and continuing immunotherapy. Right now, we don’t know if or when that will stop. 

After coming to CTCA, I found hope. I was only 45 years old at the time of my diagnosis, and I just knew that I had so much more to do.  I didn’t want someone giving me a timeframe to live. That’s what I appreciate most about CTCA—I have a multidisciplinary team working with me on the same goal, to fight my cancer.

Throughout my journey with cancer, I have tried to keep a positive attitude. I didn’t want any negativity around me. My support system, including my husband and three children, are so strong. I really believe there is a strong connection between the mind and body. The supportive care therapies offered at CTCA have helped me through cancer treatment.

Today I am happy. I like being outside, hiking and gardening. I enjoy photography and taking the time to capture an image of something that may not have seemed important before, but now I cherish the little things. I cherish the moments. After being diagnosed with cancer, I take the time to stop and look around, and see how amazing life really is.

As an Arizona ranger, I spent a great deal of my time outdoors. So, when I found what I thought to be a bug bite on my neck, I just went to my regular family doctor, who prescribed antibiotics.

When the “bite” just got bigger, I went to see an ear, nose and throat specialist at a local hospital in Arizona, where we were living at the time. They did a biopsy, and found the cells to be cancerous. I was 63 years old at the time. My wife was there with me when I received the results, and all I felt was confusion. I didn’t know which way to turn.

The doctor’s office gave me a few options for treatment, but I would have to wait six weeks or more for an appointment. I turned to another hospital, where an imaging scan showed that my cancer was at stage IV, which meant my disease was advanced.

At the time, we lived fairly close to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) near Phoenix, and finally, I decided to call.  I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist who was based near Chicago. He made a great effort to facilitate my needs, and within a week, I was at CTCA® for treatment.

At CTCA, I met people who cared. They weren’t just going through the motions. At my initial consultation, my Care Team confirmed my diagnosis and quickly came up with a plan. Suddenly, all my confusion disappeared, and my confidence level began to soar. Five days later, I began treatment.

My treatment began with chemotherapy every two weeks. Because I lived about 100 miles from the Phoenix-area hospital, I just went back and forth for my treatments. I continued with chemotherapy for about six months. Around that time, I developed an infection in my fingernails, so my Care Team recommended a month-long break from treatment. After the infection cleared up, I resumed chemotherapy with a slightly altered regimen, which took less of a toll on my body.

I received palliative care to relieve my symptoms, and indeed, my side effects were relatively minor. I had some trouble swallowing, and a little fatigue for two to three days after each treatment. But I continued my work as a ranger. The suggestions and care I received from many professionals at CTCA helped me stay strong. Acupuncture helped reduce the pain from the treatments, with the surprising added benefit of reducing the side effects from an old football injury. My wife and I have always maintained a nutritious diet, so we made sure to adhere to that during my treatment. 

I refused to give in to the temptation to let cancer get to me. I ran, climbed mountains, worked out on the treadmill and did what I could do to stay in shape. I simply put the cancer as far away from me as I could and kept on trucking. There were difficult moments, to be sure. I didn’t want my family to become overwhelmed by my diagnosis. The way I approached this concern was to keep my attitude up, as a way to help them keep strong, too. 

The care I received at CTCA was consistent and thorough. The nurse who works with my oncologist explained the medical terminology in a way that I could understand. And the naturopathic provider was so good and took a personal interest in us. She even bonded with my wife over her pregnancy. Everyone supported me and encouraged me to stay active. Even on the days I didn’t feel 100 percent, with their help, I was able to just put it behind me and keep on going.

Today, after a year and a half on chemotherapy, and participating in a clinical trial that my doctor suggested, I’m down to just one or two small spots of cancer. I’m definitely living with it, proving that you can live with cancer and just keep your life going forward.

I think the key to handling cancer is to stay strong and continue your life. You have to take cancer in your left hand and throw it behind you, go forward with your right hand, and stay physically active.

My family and I spent Thanksgiving 2015 in Alaska. We traveled by floatplane to an island where a friend lives. We hunted and spent time outdoors, climbing mountains and hiking, and I felt just strong as I did before cancer.

I also joined the Cancer Fighter Care Network®, which has been more rewarding than I anticipated. I’ve been talking to people throughout the country, and they’ve become friends; one even sent me a Christmas present. Knowing that the people I speak with are in the same situation I was before I met CTCA —confused and scared—my heart pours out. Reaching out, sharing my story and hearing theirs has been tremendously uplifting.

Best of all, in 2016, we welcomed our newborn son, Jacob, into our lives. Every day, he reminds me that life is a precious gift.

I truly wish for anyone with cancer that they will be privileged to have the same life-affirming experience I had, in the hands of the dedicated staff at CTCA.

In 2009, I began experiencing pain in my back. My local doctor near our home in Granbury, Texas, thought I had torn a muscle and told me that the pain would likely go away on its own. A year later the pain was still there. There had to be something else going on. The pain had worsened and was extending up to my rib cage. My doctor thought it might be due to a kidney stone and sent me to a specialist for a CT scan.

A couple of days after having the scan, I returned to the specialist’s office to await my results. To my mind, I was there to find out how my kidney stone could be treated. But when I saw the doctor he told me that I had stage-four cancer.

A month later, at age 53, I had my left kidney removed at a clinic in our area. The surgeon told me that he believed he’d removed all the cancer from my body, but cautioned that we can never be certain.

A year later, I went to an oncologist for a follow-up visit who told me there was cancer in my lungs. He wanted me to start chemotherapy immediately and talked with me about experimental treatments I could try. I was up for anything. All I wanted was to live, and I was willing to try any treatment that would extend my life. So I considered enrolling in a clinical trial.

But soon I began having doubts, wondering if I should at least get a second opinion. My oncologist was supportive, encouraging me to explore my options. So I scheduled a visit with a specialist at a renowned cancer center in our area. But after four days of tests and evaluations, the oncologist there told me there was nothing he could do for me.

When I relayed the news to my wife, she immediately said that she wanted me to go to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) for another opinion. She knew someone who’d been treated there for lung cancer. I protested at first, not wanting to make the six-hour drive to the nearest CTCA hospital. But being a good husband, I listened to my wife and we scheduled the visit.

Like the previous oncologists, the doctors at CTCA told me that I could not have standard chemotherapy because I had just one kidney. However, they also informed me of all that they could do. There were different types of radiation they could try. Upon seeing the results from my CT scan, Dr. Payne, my radiologist, indicated there were strategies he could try. I knew there were no guarantees, but it was wonderful to be given some hope.

At CTCA, I underwent TomoTherapy® radiation, receiving approximately 1,000 shots of radiation over five days. I stayed at the CTCA hospital in Tulsa, Oklahoma, for about two weeks. An imaging test done after the treatment was completed showed that many of the tumors had turned into scar tissue.

From the time that treatment finished until the end of 2012, life proceeded as normal. But a scan near the end of the year showed two new spots on my lungs. My wife and I drove spent the last week of the year in Tulsa and I began CyberKnife® radiation treatment in early January. In September of 2013, I had an additional treatment with the same approach.

After completing radiation treatment, I began oral chemotherapy pills, which could be taken at home, for just under four months. Imaging scans have indicated that although the tumors are still present, they are very small and have not progressed. Since completing chemotherapy, my follow-up appointments have changed from every eight weeks to every ten weeks.

Although the side effects from radiation—a sore throat and some burn marks—were mild and minimal, the chemotherapy did prove more difficult to tolerate. The medication affected my sense of taste, which in turn affected my diet. I lost weight and also my hair color changed dramatically. I was fatigued and found it difficult to do anything.

But during this time, I thought how much I want to live. I knew I would do anything to continue living. So there was never any question about continuing the treatment. And now I know if I have to resume the medication, I can get through it.

My wife has been a wonderful caregiver to me throughout this time. She was treated for breast cancer at another facility in 2002, so I know what it is I like to care for someone coping with this diagnosis. Cancer can be much harder on the caregiver than the patient. Thankfully I am CTCA has supported her. Whatever questions she has, they answer. Whatever she needs, they find a way to provide it.

I am grateful to be on the other side of treatment for now. After my diagnosis I retired from senior manager position with Lockheed Martin because I knew that eliminating work stress would help me get through treatment. Today, as I regain my strength, I am able to take the time to speak with other people coping with the same diagnosis. I can enjoy my time at home, fishing on the lake we live by, and spending time with my family, including our five grandchildren.

But I also know I have a second home now at CTCA. From the moment we arrived, I felt like I’d found a home to go to. At CTCA, I didn’t see one doctor; I saw three who consulted together about the best treatment for me. I wasn’t a patient who would be treated and forgotten; I was treated as a whole individual. From the greeters at the door to the doctors and nurses at my bedside, everyone I met at CTCA was there to support me.

I grew up on a farm in southern Iowa. My earliest memories are of blacksmiths and family meals. I also remember the stomach pain that certain foods caused. In those days, that kind of discomfort was just something to put up with.

As I grew up, my stomach pain continued. Baking soda water was the ultimate pain reliever. Soda pop worked sometimes. But as I passed through my teens and into my 20s, the discomfort continued. I enlisted in the Navy, where coffee and greasy foods were the order of the day. Needless to say, the heartburn worsened. By the time I turned 30, I’d been prescribed a couple of different medications.

In 1999, my gallbladder was removed by laparoscopic surgery. Three days later, I returned to the emergency room in excruciating pain. Later, I was told that I’d been suffering from peritonitis, and I underwent another extensive surgery. At the time, I was working as an emergency medical technician (EMT), along with running a production blacksmith shop and operating a lift truck on a warehouse floor. After the surgery, I didn’t work for two months and lifted nothing heavier than a loaf of bread.

During the 12 years following that surgery, I continued to have abdominal cramping; however, I was alive and regained most of my strength. The heartburn improved, but I often had fluid coming up my throat. And on occasion, the backed-up fluid would even block my airway and wake me in the middle of the night. 

My solution at the time was to avoid eating late and sleep on my left side. I did not pursue any further medical attention. I just lived with the pain, as many of us do. I worked 12-hour shifts and drank coffee mixed with hot chocolate to keep my energy level up. Time passed. The reflux continued. In 2011, I found out that a childhood friend, who had been diagnosed with esophageal cancer years earlier, passed away from the disease.

It was hard to believe, but in the same year, I received a phone call from another old friend, who was also diagnosed with esophageal cancer. He did seek treatment near home; however, he did eventually pass from the disease as well. This was the second personal friend I had lost to this cancer.

The loss of my two friends hit me hard, but I never connected any dots with my own life. I never stopped to wonder if the symptoms I’d been experiencing were signs of a more serious problem. And although the heartburn continued, by 2012, I was in less pain than I had been at other times in my life.

In the late spring of 2012, swallowing started becoming painful and difficult. I didn’t tell anyone. In retrospect, I was being too stoic and too hardheaded about admitting I was in pain. But then came the morning when swallowing was so painful that I could not make it to work. On a Sunday morning that last week in July, I could not swallow coffee without pain.

I contacted a gastroenterologist, who performed an examination and told me that I had a tumor the size of my fist at the base of my esophagus. A biopsy confirmed that I had stage III esophageal cancer. What made the news of my diagnosis even more difficult was that it came 38 days after the passing of my friend from the same cancer. I underwent many tests, and then 28 rounds of radiation, followed by several rounds of chemotherapy. Despite my treatments, the cancer was still prevailing.

Feeling like I could do more, I decided to explore my treatment options. In November 2012, I contacted and moved my care to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) in Zion, Illinois, which is about 45 minutes north of Chicago. My care team recommended surgery to remove the cancer that remained in my body. I agreed, and my esophagus was removed. My hospital recovery lasted 28 days. After I recuperated, I had three months of chemotherapy. In April 2013, a scheduled follow-up scan showed no visible signs of cancer. I am so grateful for the exceptional medical care that I have received at CTCA®.

The esophagostomy surgery was difficult. I basically had to learn how to eat again, but the post-care I received was tremendous. I felt remorseful for some time afterward. Why didn’t I see the signs sooner? Gradually, as I learned how to eat again and regained my strength, I also came to see that I was given the gift of survival, and perhaps I had learned a lesson that I could now share with others.

It is like that old joke about the man who so strongly believes God will save him from the flood that he rejects all the help that comes his way, which, of course, God later reveals as His own workings. In the version of that story I was told, the man is allowed to live as long as he agrees to share the lesson he has learned with others. I feel like that man now: I am spreading the word to others about paying attention to the early warning signs of esophageal cancer, which can include things like heartburn, swallowing difficulties and chest pains.

Now I am adamant in my message: If you have symptoms, don’t ignore them. Don’t ignore pain. Pain is your body telling your mind to pay attention. It is a symptom of underlying illness, serious or not. Not all symptoms indicate cancer, of course. But we need to listen to our bodies so that the underlying cause can be addressed and healed.

I have lost many more friends to esophageal cancer, and yet many people are not aware of this disease. I work hard now to raise awareness about the early warning signs of esophageal cancer.

Today, I have had five years with no evidence of cancer. In 2017, I attended Celebrate Life® at CTCA and had my leaf placed on one of the Trees of Life. I have researched the survival rates for esophageal cancer and feel like being where I am today is a miracle. I was lucky to have found CTCA, where my care team worked tirelessly to help me through a very serious surgery, treatment and recovery. I continue to return to CTCA every six months for dilations of the esophagus. I truly believe that the whole-person approach to care I received brought me through to the other side, so that I can now urge others to heed the signs. That is my message.

I guess you could say I’m a poster child for having an annual mammogram. I had them every year, religiously. In December 2008, a radiation oncologist noticed some suspicious spots on my mammogram. The spots were small and deep within the tissue; there was no lump that could be felt by hand. My doctor told me that the cells, classified as ductal carcinoma, had probably been developing for several years. I was quite surprised by the diagnosis since my family had no history of cancer and I have always been healthy. My faith in God gave me a deep sense of peace, so I did not feel concerned. I just wanted to get things taken care of quickly.

The recommended treatment was surgery. I had an MRI at the same facility where I’d had the mammogram and scheduled the surgery. Then I got to talking with some friends. By coincidence, a friend of mine had undergone a similar surgical procedure at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) just three days after my diagnosis. She had only glowing things to say.

I decided to call CTCA®. The facility in suburban Chicago is just three blocks from my home, but I had not considered calling the hospital before. The experience was positive from the start. The level of care and concern, along with the variety of extra services—such as nutrition guidance, naturopathic support and acupuncture—gave me comfort. These integrative approaches wouldn’t replace my medical care, but it was wonderful to have them available. I chose to schedule my treatment at CTCA.

I was scheduled for a lumpectomy about three weeks after my diagnosis. The surgery went as planned, and there was no lymph node involvement. My surgeon also sent some of the tissue for diagnostic testing to determine whether I was likely to benefit from chemotherapy. The test results put me at the middle of the road, and after considering the matter heavily over a weekend, I decided not to have that additional treatment. I instead completed the recommended five years of maintenance treatment with Arimidex® by April 2014. Supportive care services like acupuncture and chiropractic care have helped to reduce the side effects of the drug.

My post-surgery treatment consisted of radiation every day for seven weeks. I continued to work during this time, and the level of care at CTCA enabled me to do so. I would work at my job as a school teacher and then go to CTCA in the evenings for radiation treatment. I would also have dinner at CTCA, which was a real comfort to me.

From the start of my treatment, the level of care was unlike anything I’d ever experienced before. My radiologist spent an hour describing a specialized procedure called gating that he wanted to do with me. With this approach, my breathing was measured and used to make a calculation about the timing of radiation. The radiation beam was coordinated with my breathing as a way to reduce the risk of organ damage. That was an extra measure that my doctor did not have to take but wanted to because he thought it might help me.

When I experienced some burning from the radiation, my care team provided creams and coconut oil to help treat my skin, and they kept a watchful eye to make sure the burns did not get too painful.

I never felt like my doctors had authority over me. Instead, they made me feel important, that my opinion counted in my care. Every question I had was taken seriously. The care was extensive, down to my doctor giving me his cellphone number, and the warmth extended to me by the care team was, for me, part of the treatment.

Having my husband as my caregiver helped me stay strong during my treatment. We had been married for 36 years by then, and he took over everything at home—the shopping, the housework—and also provided me with emotional and spiritual support. I was heartened to see how CTCA took care of him. He could get educated on how to take care of me, and himself, and there were always people available to talk to if he needed.

I’ve always enjoyed exercise, and had completed two triathlons before I was diagnosed with cancer. Since my treatment, I completed another race in 2012. In 2011, I had the joy of going with my older daughter and her husband to pick up their newly adopted baby in Florida, and to pick up his adopted half-sister in 2015. I am so thankful to have the good health to care for them a couple days a week. I also traveled to South Africa with my church, went on a Disney cruise with my younger daughter and her two girls, and took a trip to New York after my five-year Celebrate Life® event with CTCA.

My grandchildren and my family as a whole have always kept me strong, and especially so during cancer treatment. Thinking about all that there is to do, all I want to do, and knowing my faith helped get me through, I’m thankful to feel as healthy as I did before treatment.

One morning in the shower, I felt a knot in my genital area. It didn’t feel right, and I knew it didn’t belong there. My doctor near my home in Knoxville, Tennessee, dismissed it as a diverticulum in my urethra and referred me to an urologist. I didn’t have any diagnostic tests.

The urologist told me that the knot was a tumor that was barely attached to the inside of the vaginal wall. He surgically removed the mass. Three days later, the urologist called to tell me that the pathologist who’d examined the tissue noticed that one of the samples appeared abnormal. They sent the samples to an academic medical center, where pathologists confirmed that I had leiomyosarcoma. I was 47 years old at the time.

Cancer had always been my top fear in life. Leiomyosarcoma is a rare and aggressive cancer, and I was scared.      

I had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call a couple of weeks after I’d been diagnosed. I was scared to travel out of state for treatment, but the representative I’d first spoken with continued to provide support for me during those first weeks. She called me in the evening of the day I’d left the radiologist’s office in tears. I felt like giving up and I prayed for a sign of hope. When I received her call later that evening, I knew that was my sign, and I knew I was ready to travel to CTCA® for an evaluation.

I stayed at the Chicago hospital for four days with my caregiver. I was nervous and scared when I arrived, but was soon set at ease. The staff at the front desk, the doctors, nurses and the cafeteria workers—everyone I came in contact with—was full of compassion. I was happy with the medical process, too. Obtaining test results, hearing the prognosis and treatment options, and having the space to make my own decisions were all so different to what I’d experienced before. Nothing was forced on me. 

I returned to CTCA for treatment, staying for five and a half weeks to undergo radiation therapy. Although I traveled alone, I never felt alone. CTCA quickly became my second family. Everyone knew me by name, and I knew everyone by name.

I was able to get through the treatment with minor side effects, thanks at least in part to the assistance from my naturopathic oncology provider and my nutritionist. I kept active, going on long walks at the recommendation of my nurse. After about the fourth week of radiation, I experienced some burning during radiation, which my doctor had warned me was likely. The problem lasted for a little while after treatment, but gradually subsided. Avoiding rich foods helped my digestive system function normally during treatments. I was tired, but keeping active and following a healthy diet strengthened me.

Being at a place that treats the whole person—body, mind and spirit—was very healing. I had never experienced anything like that with medical care before. The approach gave me hope, and helped me put my best foot forward. The compassion I felt from my Care Team at CTCA helped me find the light at the end of the tunnel.

More than a year after finishing treatment, I am feeling good. It has taken me a while to get there, but I’m finally there. I return to CTCA every three months for follow-up visits, but so far, there are no signs of cancer. I have returned to work and also the activities I enjoy, like landscaping, hiking and traveling.

Looking back, I can see what a difference it made to know that the treatment process was in my control. When I returned home and had some issues, I could pick up the phone and speak with someone. My calls were returned quickly. I have been working with a mind-body therapist at CTCA since completing treatment, and that has also been invaluable. I have spoken with her periodically for more than a year now, either by phone or in person during my follow-up visits.

Being surrounded by people who really cared about my well-being—my Care Team at CTCA, my family and my caregiver at home—helped me get through this difficult time, and it continues to help me today.

When I was 49 years old, I started to feel some very mild symptoms. My husband and I hike a lot, and in October of 2006 we were in Canada, and hiking was a little tougher than usual. One night a few months later, I slipped and sprained my wrist and ended up needing surgery to fix the bone. I mentioned to my doctor some other symptoms I’d been experiencing and wondered if there was cause for concern. He gave me some blood tests and told me that he thought I should have a colonoscopy. I went for that procedure at a local hospital in Missoula, Montana, not far from our home in Lolo.

The colonoscopy revealed that I had colon cancer, and so that procedure was quickly followed by surgery. Once I found out there was cancer in my body, I wanted it gone. There was no reason to wait. The colonoscopy results came back on April 9, and I had surgery on April 13. 

My father died of cancer when I was young, and I was aware that there are many cancer centers and treatment can vary depending where you go. I’d kept an article reviewing some different places for a long time. After the shock of my diagnosis wore off, I called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), just to check out my options.

At first, I was hesitant to divulge any information. I wanted to get the information, not give it. But I gave the person I spoke with enough for her to investigate whether I’d be eligible for treatment there. She called back soon after to let me know that I was.

I wasn’t sure whether I should go to CTCA or stay local. My brother talked to the same person I’d spoken with and afterwards he was adamant that I go there. “That’s where you need to be,” he said to me.

I had the surgery locally because I wanted it done fast. The nurse at my local clinic in Missoula was also encouraging me to seek treatment elsewhere because she knew that the level of medical expertise was better in places outside Missoula. So I went to CTCA. 

During the first few rounds of chemotherapy, I would begin treatment on a Thursday afternoon and travel back on Saturday. My husband and I work for the railroad and are both away from home a lot as it is; we didn’t want to take extra time away. But a few months into treatment I developed blood clots and my care team at CTCA suggested that I stop flying and instead stay put at the facility while I completed the treatment. So, my husband and I drove from Montana to Oklahoma in our RV, stopping in Wisconsin to pick up our new rescue dog, Dudley, along the way.

We stayed in our RV, parked in the parking lot of CTCA, for a couple of months. In retrospect I know this was absolutely the right thing for us. First, it made the experience completely unique. At what other cancer center do you find patients happily camping out in the parking lot? Also, we got to know everyone—the restaurant staff, everyone in the infusion department the pastors. If I wanted to see the doctor, I didn’t need to make an appointment for a few days later, I could just work it out for the next day. My husband was able to meet other caregivers, which was very helpful, and he even became friendly with the building contractors. 

At one point I swore to myself that I wasn’t going to make any new friends. I would just go into the hospital with blinders on and come back out without talking to anyone. That was my plan, but it didn’t work. Sometimes that was hard, because we did lose some friends along the way. But I know I wouldn’t trade those encounters and friendships for the world.

Early on in my treatment, when I was still flying in for appointments, I traveled alone and ended up in tears outside my hospital room because I couldn’t get the door open. A man named Jerry who was pushing his wife in a wheelchair stopped and said he’d come back in just a minute to help me. He got my door open and we ended up talking for a while. My husband and I ended up becoming close friends with Jerry and his wife, Betty. We even made a surprise trip to their house in Missouri one year. 

Today I am feeling very well. My husband and I travel a lot, and are looking forward to doing even more traveling when he retires next year. Sometimes there are residual side effects, but nothing that slows me down significantly.

When I speak with others who are facing a cancer diagnosis, I always tell them that calling CTCA is the most important phone call they can make. So often, people feel that they haven’t been cared for as a whole person; you won’t feel that way at CTCA.

Sometimes on my birthday I call the hospital to leave a message for Dr. Shrestha to thank her. I believe I would not be here without her. I am also grateful to my husband, Verlin. He was brave and supported me, and encouraged me to take care of myself even when I didn’t want to be told what to do.

Wanting my life back was what kept me motivated throughout my treatment. And that is exactly what happened: I got my life back. I’m here with my husband and many long years ahead of me.

I will never forget finding out that Suzanne had cancer. She’d gone to see her doctor after a colonoscopy and had taken her mother with her. Her mother told me that Suzanne had cancer. That moment turned our world around.

Suzanne saw a surgeon nearby in Missoula, Montana, and had also called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I was working a lot at the time, so wasn’t home when she was first weighing the options of where to seek treatment.

She had surgery locally because she wanted the tumors removed as soon as possible, and that was when we found out the cancer was when we found out the cancer was stage IIIB. It had gone into her lymph nodes. We were panicking about getting her into further treatment as soon as possible, but she needed a month to recover from the operation. But Suzanne was ready to take matters into her own hands. I remember how she was up from her bed and doing laps around the hospital so she could be discharged as soon as possible. She was strong from the start.

Suzanne had known about CTCA for a while. She she’d put the information aside, thinking someone she knew might need it. She’d never suspected that she would be calling for herself. But she knew that’s where she wanted to be, and I agreed with her.

The integrative approaches that are offered—naturopathy, nutrition therapy, and other modalities—were very appealing to us. If these were offered near our local facility, we would have to travel all over for appointments. At CTCA, everything was there and it was all under one roof. We went there as soon as we could.

When we arrived at the Tulsa facility, it felt like walking into a hotel lobby, not a hospital. The experience was different even before we arrived; our driver, Jeanie, who picked us up at the airport, was our first encounter with the reassuring and accommodating approach of CTCA.

Becoming a caregiver to someone going through cancer treatment is no small feat. I watched Suzanne suffer a lot, and that was very hard. But I made a decision that I would never let her see me upset, because I knew that would make her upset. Plus, she needed me to focus on her needs.

I tried to make sure she got enough food, and followed the recommendations given to her by her nutritionist and naturopath. Her care team educated us about what side effects she was likely to experience and about what medications might help. I had a long list of what medicines she needed at what time, and I watched for side effects. Often I felt helpless and overwhelmed, but I knew she needed me there.

I made sure she ate and that she slept. I also had to make sure she didn’t sleep more than 50 percent of the day, so sometimes my job was to keep her awake. I made sure she had her favorite crafting activities, like beading and quilting, available. She thought I was pushy, but she’s my life so she had no choice but to put up with it.

I was at every appointment with Suzanne. The doctors took their time to explain everything to me, and considered me part of her care team, even to the point of reprimanding me when she was losing too much weight. I made smoothies with fruit and protein and did my best to get her to drink them every morning, even when she complained. When she had trouble with taste, her nutritionist suggested giving her a few pumpkin seeds every few hours, which seemed to help.

Hard as this time was, it also brought Suzanne and I closer. I also valued the support I received from the friends we made at CTCA. When we were having a difficult go of it, the hospital staff gave me a card, which boosted my spirits so much.

I also tried to be mindful of what I could leave for Suzanne to do. As a caregiver, it’s important to remember that someone going through cancer treatment needs to be able to do things for themselves sometimes. I knew Suzanne needed to continue doing our finances, for example. It helped her to know she could still do it, and I needed to give her that space. I also made sure that she would let me know if she became mad at me. She became pretty good at that one—but always told me she loved me fifteen minutes later.

One of the best things about going through this time was how many people Suzanne and I met. Before her diagnosis, we lived a fairly cloistered kind of life. But at CTCA we met people from all over the country. It’s important to take advantage of that opportunity. We still go back to visit friends at CTCA.

Today our lives feel back to normal. We go to the movies, we hike, we travel. I cannot imagine my life without Suzanne—and now I don’t have to.

“I don’t have time for anger. My focus is to make sure my kids have a father.” That was I what I thought and how I felt when I learned I had synovial cell sarcoma, an extremely rare form of cancer. I was 35 at the time and newly remarried. My career as an insurance and financial services agent for Farmers® was thriving. Life was good.

My wife, Jeanne, was so strong and supportive. And my children, Jackson and Zoe, handled my diagnosis and treatment better than I could’ve possibly have imagined. We knew the journey would be challenging, but we took the “bull by the horns” and came out of this experience healthier and stronger people. It was a family effort.

In the years leading up to my sarcoma diagnosis, I experienced a number of problems with my left knee. I had several shots of cortisone in my knee for pain, arthritis and inflammation. In 2004, I had surgery to repair a torn meniscus. Within a few months of the surgery, my knee was sore and swollen again. My doctor shaved my meniscus down and removed scar tissue. Less than a year later, the pain and swelling returned, becoming more and more severe. It also became difficult for me to walk normally. I had X-rays, MRIs and visits with multiple doctors. Finally, in December 2006, an orthopedic surgeon determined from the scans that I had a tumor in my knee. He recommended that I see an orthopedic oncologist in Oklahoma City as soon as possible.

We scheduled an appointment with the orthopedic oncologist, and she agreed that it was likely a benign tumor. A few days before Christmas, I underwent surgery to remove the tumor. The day after New Year’s, Jeanne and I received the news: It was synovial cell sarcoma, a rare malignant cancer that manifests itself in the soft tissue around joints. The tumor had been on the inside of my knee, wrapped around a nerve and extending around to the front of my knee. It was 11 centimeters long. I underwent a chest X-ray and CT scan that day and discovered that, fortunately, the cancer had not spread beyond my knee.

The shock wave of being told I had sarcoma was so intense, especially considering I knew next to nothing about the disease. I decided I was going to attack it from all angles—and we did.

We returned to our home in Tulsa after receiving the diagnosis. It took a day or two to process what was happening. Then I got focused. I scheduled appointments to see a psychologist, naturopathic clinician and a local oncologist. Jeanne called Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) at Southwestern Regional Medical Center in Tulsa, which just happened to be across the street from our home. We set up an appointment for a consultation. From the get-go, I was impressed with the fact that CTCA® had all of the types of health care providers I was looking for right there. In addition to oncologists, they had psychologists, naturopathic clinicians and other providers. I was thinking, “Whoa, these people are on the same page as I’m on.” But first and foremost were the medical oncologist and radiation oncologist. After we met with them, I felt very comfortable.

We decided to go ahead with treatment at CTCA. My medical oncologist recommended an aggressive treatment plan consisting of six cycles of high-dose chemotherapy. Once I completed my chemotherapy regimen, I was to receive radiation treatment. The goal was to shut the cancer down once and for all.

I waited three weeks for my knee to heal a bit from surgery, and then I started my chemotherapy regimen. I had a port surgically implanted in my chest that I received my chemotherapy through intravenously. Each cycle was a 21-day period. It would start on Monday morning, when the chemo bags would be connected to the port. The infusion process would last for five to six consecutive, full days. Fifteen days after infusion, I would go in for blood work to assure that I was strong enough to start the next round.

The week during each infusion, I tried to focus as much as possible. I would listen to meditation tapes to help me envision the chemo killing the cancer cells. The free wi-fi in the inpatient rooms allowed me to work from the hospital. The week after each round of chemotherapy was extremely rough because the chemo was hard at work. I was nauseated, but I never threw up.

I did have blood transfusions for cycles four and six. This helped make it possible for me to complete my intensive treatment regimen. There was a point when I wanted to give up on the chemotherapy. The little things I could do during that time became triumphs, like walking to the mailbox. I lost 45 pounds, and I lost my hair. I looked pretty awful. But I made it through. My goal was to be done in May and play in a big golf tournament I play in every June. I did it, and it was great.

In the first week of June, I started radiation treatment. I received 37 treatments targeted to my knee. Overall, the radiation was relatively easy on me, and I had few side effects.

At various points of my sarcoma treatment, I took advantage of the supportive care services CTCA offers, including mind-body medicine, naturopathic medicine and nutrition. I believed these therapies could help me live healthier, and I put it into play much of what I learned.

My expectations were met and then some at CTCA. I give my doctors a lot of credit, as well as the nurses. The radiation therapy team is fantastic, too.

The hospital also does something called comfort rounds, which are tremendous. A group of doctors, practitioners and other staff visits with inpatients to make sure their needs are being met. Not only does it help these patients, but it helps the hospital learn from the patients so the team can improve the care and services provided.

The cafeteria staff is also great, and the hospital concierge embodies the spirit of CTCA. People hang out in the lobby just to be around her. She gives out positive energy and hugs.

All in all, it’s A’s across the board for CTCA.       

When I started treatment, I set out to change whatever it was that may have gotten me in that situation to begin with. Sure, it could have just been weird luck and there was no rhyme or reason to it. But I wasn’t going to put myself at risk. So I’ve never stopped striving to live an overall better life.

I stopped drinking soda and eating fast food. I used to be addicted to nicotine. I quit that as soon as I heard I had cancer. Because I live and work so close to the hospital, I still eat there almost every day. I’d say 70 percent of my meals these days are organic. I only drink water or organic green tea or juice. Every now and then, I’ll splurge and have a beer or glass of wine. It’s also rare that I eat red meat.

I take a multivitamin daily. I also use organic shampoo, hair care products and such. Going through cancer, I’ve also learned how to handle stress better.

The surgery, chemotherapy and radiation were all necessary for me to beat the disease. It was brutal, but certainly a small price to pay. Because of all of the lifestyle changes I’ve made since my cancer diagnosis, I am leading a healthier life.

I return to CTCA for checkups. For the first year and a half, I went in every three months. Now I go back annually for blood tests, a MRI of my knee and CT scans of my abdomen and chest (which is the area the cancer would most likely spread to), followed by a visit with my medical oncologist.

I regularly speak to newly diagnosed cancer patients in the Tulsa community about what it’s like to go through cancer treatment and how to deal with cancer. I served on the CTCA Patient Advisory Council for two years, and today I’m involved in the CTCA Cancer Fighters® Care Net. It allows me to speak directly with people considering going to CTCA for cancer treatment. It feels good to give back and help other people out. Although I do write checks to several cancer-related charities and research foundations, I find that actually getting involved and speaking to patients is much more rewarding.

One of the first things I recommend to people is chronicling their cancer journey on CaringBridge. It is one of the most helpful tools for a cancer patient. It makes it easy for family and friends to get updates on patients, and it lets patients know how much people care about them.

I make a difference in any way that I can. I take time to talk with people. For example, I’ve probably had 100 meals with patients in treatment at the hospital I had never met before. And I make time for my family. As years pass and I continue to reach milestones as a cancer survivor, I look forward to seeing my children reach milestones in their own lives.

I was 41 years old when I was diagnosed with early-stage lung cancer after having treatment for a painful kidney stone. I felt healthy; I had never smoked a single cigarette in my life, and had no symptoms.

When we got home I started searching online for information about the cancer with which I’d been diagnosed. I was looking for whatever I could find. During that research I came across the website for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and clicked the link to start “chatting” with a representative. After typing back and forth and explaining my story, the representative suggested that I just call CTCA®.

I called CTCA and the person I spoke with was in Chicago. I didn’t rule out the option of traveling so far away for treatment, but I explained that I wasn’t sure that was what I wanted. She asked if I could get to their facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma, instead. A five-hour drive was easy to say “yes” to. I made the trip the next day.

The doctor I met with at CTCA made the same diagnosis and actually suggested the same treatment that I had received elsewhere, a lobectomy. But although these were the same facts the other doctor had provided, the approach felt entirely different.

Then I met with Dr. Baik, my surgeon, who told me that he had done many, many of these operations, but that CTCA would be getting a new robotic surgery device in three weeks that would make the procedure less invasive and less painful. My recovery time would potentially be faster and I would be in the hospital for a shorter stay. I decided to come back to CTCA in three weeks for a lobectomy with robotic surgery.

I chose CTCA because the doctors I met with explained everything. They discussed all the variables, all the scenarios, and made sure I understood what they were saying. My doctors at CTCA listened to me when I said I wanted to run and lift weights again, two of my passions, and they suggested the option that they believed would help me.

Dr. Baik was also honest with me. He explained that when he removed the tumor, he could find that the cancer cells were touching the top of the next lung lobe, which would mean a more extensive surgery and chemotherapy. He told me there was no certainty about what he would find, and he made sure to find out what I wanted with each possible scenario. He took the time at the start so that he could do whatever was needed during the first surgery; if he wasn’t sure, he would have to wait for me to wake up and then operate again. His approach avoided that, and reassured me that he was listening and including me in the decision-making process.

Three weeks later, I was back at CTCA for the procedure. The top left lobe of my lung was removed on a Wednesday. On Thursday, with an IV in my arm and a tube in my chest, I walked a mile. Five weeks later, I ran a 5K.

Three months after the surgery, I am feeling very well. Although I am not yet completely healed, I am able to coach several little league sports, which I love to do, and also run and lift weights regularly. I have had some slight pain in my chest and itching as the nerves regenerate but as Dr. Baik explained, this mild side effect will end as my body finishes healing.

My speedy recovery owes a lot to my wife. She understood that I needed to be out of the hospital bed as soon as possible. She knew I needed to start doing things for myself right away, and that pampering was not what was needed. She talked with the nurses about this, and the nurses followed her lead. Thanks to her, I was out of bed and walking around sooner than anyone expected.

When I first heard the diagnosis, I was scared. There is no way to avoid the worst thoughts and fears when you hear this news. But with the help of my wife and the support of CTCA, I was able to think things through, steady myself for the road ahead, and keep going.

I had been diligent about having my prostate specific antigen (PSA) level, a potential indicator for prostate cancer, tested every year since I was 49 years old. In my late 50s, the number started to change, and my general practitioner recommended that I see a urologist, who did a biopsy.

Waiting for the biopsy results to arrive felt like the longest period of time in my life. I was scared. I thought I was going to die. My history with this disease was not one of triumph over an enemy; it was one of sadness and loss for other people. Finally, the urologist who did the biopsy delivered the news that I had stage IV prostate cancer.

At first, I wasn’t sure what to do. I was feeling fatalistic, like nothing I could do would make any difference. But then I had a moment of clarity that arrived with the thought: Get this out of me.

I had several treatment options, including watching and waiting. But I wanted to undergo surgery to have the cancer removed. I felt that if I waited, somehow, I would become more negative in my attitude, more pessimistic. I had moved to Arizona before the diagnosis, and that change was affecting me emotionally. It was clear to me that I wanted to avoid doing anything that could lead me to a more depressed state. I had to take control.

A surgeon at the urology clinic did a prostatectomy. For about six months, my PSA score remained at a low level.    

About six months later, the PSA began climbing again. During those six months, I had met some other people who invited me to join a support group that met on the first Thursday of each month. At the time, I was 57 years old and working as a teacher, so I had an excuse not to go. But in January 2009, when school was closed for winter break, I finally went. Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) had recently opened its Arizona location, and the group was meeting there in the morning. That afternoon, I was scheduled to see a doctor at the urology clinic where I’d been going.

At the morning support group meeting, the speaker was a radiation oncologist from CTCA®. I paid close attention to her. When I asked questions that afternoon at the urology clinic, I felt my questions weren’t answered. Afterwards, I called the CTCA radiation oncologist I’d met that morning to ask about treatment options at CTCA.

Shortly thereafter, I was at the CTCA location in Suburban Chicago for an initial evaluation. The radiation oncologist I met with told me about the Calypso® 4D Localization System of radiation, explaining that this treatment would be the recommended approach. I didn’t feel any pressure to go along with this plan, but I also felt like he took the time to make sure I understood my treatment options so I could come to a decision about my treatment.

I went home to talk things over with my wife and returned to CTCA for the treatment. 

The treatment took nine weeks, and I stayed near CTCA during that time. This stay was one of the best things that I’ve ever done. I wanted to immerse myself in my treatment. I had a room at a hotel nearby, and I would go to the hospital so I could focus on getting better.

After nine weeks of treatment, I returned home to Arizona. After that, I returned to Chicago for follow-up visits every three months. My PSA score never went to zero, but it remained at a low level for four years. Then it shot back up again.

In 2012, I began hormone therapy treatment with Lupron®. My PSA score decreased. In June 2015, my PSA test showed the lowest score since I was diagnosed.

During my treatment, the side effects have been reduced. I lost weight, but as long as I watch what I eat, my weight is under control. My care team helps me with my nutrition at my follow-up visits.

The connections I made at CTCA have been one of the most valuable aspects of my journey with cancer. These relationships give hope and encouragement, and they provide spiritual support. Through the people I met at CTCA and my experience there, I felt like I was part of something bigger than myself.

It was hard to leave behind the fatalistic attitude. Believing that a challenge can be overcome and then doing what you need to in order to succeed is often harder than just giving up and giving in. I try to give others the same encouragement that I received, so that they, too, will have the strength to believe that cancer may not be the end, but rather just another moment in life.

In June 2014, my wife and I traveled to CTCA together for my five-year survivorship celebration. She was able to meet some of the people I’d known for years, which turned out to be a very healing experience for her. She could see the support network that I had.

Cancer changed my life. Now, every day is a celebration. Things that once seemed so important no longer hold the same weight. My priorities have changed for the better.

My cancer diagnosis happened almost by accident. In the early months of 2011, I was considering leaving my job and going to work for my son. We’d started a business four or five years earlier, and I was thinking about joining him full time. But one of my concerns with making the change was health insurance, because I would need different coverage and I wasn’t sure what the cost would be.

At the time, I had a small lump in the groin area and I went to the doctor to have it evaluated. I wanted to know if it was anything serious before I tried to switch insurance plans. My doctor said I had a swollen lymph node. He said sometimes lymph nodes can swell and then return to normal, but I wanted to be certain there was nothing to be concerned about. I arranged to have the lymph node removed and examined. On April 29, the report from the analysis of the lymph node came back with the diagnosis of lymphoma.

In the weeks following my diagnosis, I visited four cancer treatment facilities for an evaluation. I also visited a training hospital near our home in Westminster, Maryland, but my sense was training came first and patients came second.

One day, one of my wife’s clients told her about Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). I’d never heard of it, but we decided to call. I ended up traveling to the CTCA hospital in Philadelphia for a three-day consultation in June. The doctors there recommended a monoclonal antibody called rituximab plus combination chemotherapy, a treatment regimen known as R-CHOP. It was the same treatment some of the other doctors I met with had recommended, however the difference was when I walked into CTCA, I felt comfortable. It was the kind of place where I wanted to be for cancer treatment. In late June, I underwent my first round of R-CHOP there.

During most of my treatment, I felt well. I wasn’t very sick from the drugs, and I felt good about the care I was receiving at CTCA. Yet, I almost postponed the sixth cycle of treatment because by that point, I was wiped out. Dr. Shayma Kazmi, my oncologist, encouraged me to stick with it. I did, and I’m glad for that decision. However, that last month was rough. I wasn’t bedridden, but I couldn’t do very much. I also became sick with pneumonia and bronchitis.

Recovery has taken some time. But after nearly two years since completing treatment, I feel well and am able to do more and more. I return to CTCA every four months for diagnostic testing and a checkup.

I chose CTCA because the care there is all about the patient. There is no question about the priority among the staff there, and everyone jumps through hoops to make sure you feel taken care of.

The people I happened to meet at CTCA also made a huge difference to me. During the first three days I spent there, I met Dr. Anthony Perre. He’d been diagnosed with the same cancer I had, a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma known as large B-cell lymphoma. Dr. Perre had been clear of it for a number of years at that point. He was the first person I met who’d been through treatment for that cancer, and it was so encouraging to hear his experience. There was also Angela, who greeted patients as they entered the hospital. She was so full of joy. Every time I saw her, I felt better. Her attitude helped me maintain a positive attitude.

My wife has been my caregiver and she is a huge part of my care and recovery. She researched everything, kept notes and never let up, even when I couldn’t keep up with all the details.

As far as I’m concerned, I’m a success story. My experience at CTCA was excellent and I am on the other side of this diagnosis.

But going through cancer has been far more than just a medical experience. It’s changed me. I’m able to appreciate the small moments in life, day by day. I’m slower, not just because of recovering from treatment, but because I’m more laid back. I’m able to enjoy life a little bit more each day. I knew I had to push through my treatment, but now that I’m on the other side, I’m savoring life so much more. That’s a success of its own.

In 2006, I began experiencing some health issues. My wife, Elsie, and I didn’t think the problems were related to cancer. That was the last thing on our minds. I use a wheelchair as a result of a spinal cord injury many years ago. One day we were at rehabilitation facility to get a new prescription for a replacement wheelchair. The physician there happened to ask if I was experiencing any other issues. Elsie told him about the problem I was having, which mainly involved a discharge with a strong odor, and the doctor reacted immediately. He wanted me to have a colonoscopy. It was thought this would be related to paraplegia, not cancer.

I went to my regular physician and they ordered a full colonoscopy (since I was the “magic age of 50” anyway). Minutes after the colonoscopy was performed, the  gastroenterologist told me that I had colon cancer. He had seen many of them. He was certain.

As a 50-year-old man in good health, the diagnosis was entirely unexpected. It’s almost hard to express how much it surprised me. But I had to absorb the news fast and find out the next steps.

Our daughter Jennifer worked for a group of surgeons and the initial plan was for me to go there for surgery. I made an appointment and met with a surgeon there. But before I could have the procedure, I needed to get a second EKG as there was an “issue” with the first one. Until that could be rectified, there would be no surgery. I was already for the surgery and was canceled the evening before.

In the meantime, Elsie had been doing research about cancer and its treatment online.  She wanted to know what my options were. She saw the website for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call. She told me she had a good feeling about this place. My position was that if she was comfortable with it, then I was comfortable with it. When we arrived at CTCA®, I could see immediately that her instinct had led us to the right place.

By the way, my EKG was fine. There was an error made during the procedure. I don’t believe in coincidences and I know that the problematic EKG was designed to steer me to CTCA.

On Monday November 13, 2006, I had surgery. As I finished recuperating, my doctor confirmed that the surgery had been a success and the cancer had been removed. I received help from a nutritionist, a naturopathic oncology provider, and spiritual support in getting well. My care was well-rounded, without any gaps.

CTCA allowed Elsie to stay with me around the clock, which was also wonderful. She is a registered nurse and has solid medical knowledge, along with a deep well of empathy. I was with the best person possible for healing. CTCA took care of her, too. If she needed a break, there was someone to take her place. When she needed to go shopping for something, they took her. When my family came to visit, they were taken care of too. It was simply astounding.

It’s been many years now since I was diagnosed with colon cancer. I return to CTCA every year for follow-up visits. Since that surprising news many years ago, I have watched three grandchildren come into the world and one of my two children get married. Elsie and I celebrated our 36th wedding anniversary.

I am retired, but remain as active as possible. I do administrative work for a missions team and I help Elsie with some of her endeavors. Above all, I have time with my family, which kept me motivated during my treatment and still does today.

Looking back, I think our insistence on knowing our options was vital. We don’t have to listen to the first voice we hear. We can get as much information as we need in order to make a decision about our health care. They say that knowledge is power, and when it comes to cancer treatment that is absolutely true. After all, Elsie’s insistence on finding out more brought us to CTCA. I am deeply thankful for my committed spouse, family, and the care by the wonderful folks at ERMC.

I knew that something wasn’t right with Tom. He was having some bowel issues that were accompanied by an abnormal odor. Because I work as a registered nurse, I’m tuned into health issues, so I was aware that there was a problem needing to be addressed. However, cancer was not my concern.

At a visit to the doctor so Tom could get his prescription for a new wheelchair, which he uses due to a spinal cord injury, the doctor asked if Tom was having any other problems. When I told him about the issue he was having, the doctor was alarmed. He wanted Tom to have a colonoscopy right away.

The gastroenterologist who did the colonoscopy told us immediately afterwards that Tom had colon cancer. He knew the signs. He had seen enough cases in his life and he knew.

Our daughter worked for a group of surgeons who we liked, and our first plan was that Tom would undergo surgery there. The procedure had to be delayed because the anesthesiologist said Tom needed to have an EKG before he could have the anesthesia.

At the same time, I’d been doing some research online to find out what other options we might have for treatment, just in case. I read the website for CTCA and called. The Oncology Information Specialist who I spoke with was wonderful from the start. She was so kind and caring, and was immediately ready to take care of our needs. Tom and I decided to visit in person, so we made the trip from Virginia to Philadelphia. I was blown away by the experience there. Within three days, there was a plan created by a multidisciplinary team. We never went back to the other clinic. We went forward to CTCA.

Tom had support from his entire Care Team. He was given guidance on nutrition and supplements from a dietitian and naturopath. He received spiritual support from a pastor. The technician who did the CT scans was one of the best such professionals I’ve ever encountered. There was a nurse who was not on Tom’s Care Team but who came to speak with us and check on him anyway. Tom’s oncologist and surgeon were amazing—highly skilled professionals from start to finish.

Sometimes it was hard to navigate Tom’s recovery in light of his paralysis, but that’s part of life. Because of my nursing background, I was very involved in his care. That intense care can wear you out, but CTCA took care of me. They had outings for me to participate in, and they helped with whatever I needed. They were there for me as much as they were there for Tom.

There is no need for anyone to have a date stamped on their forehead when they’re diagnosed with cancer. I would encourage anyone to seek a second opinion, and especially so if they’ve been told there’s no hope. It’s also crucial to learn as much as you can about your diagnosis. Seek options. Find out about what’s out there that could help.

I also learned how much friends and family can be part of getting well. Our circle of friends and relatives was an incredible support to us. When we came to CTCA I was adamant that I was not going to be part of any groups. But the community at CTCA also became part of Tom’s recovery and my experience, too. Healing can appear in surprising ways.

When I was 64 years old, my annual PSA test showed an increase. I knew that PSA, which stands for prostate-specific antigen, is a protein that can sometimes be an indicator of prostate cancer when the level begins to rise. When my PSA score reached 5.6 and remained at that level for about a year, my doctor near my home in Oakland, Tennessee, just outside Memphis, suggested that I see an urologist for a biopsy.

The urologist took 12 samples of prostate tissue, and one of the samples was 25 percent cancerous. That was the first time I heard the big “c” word. Immediately I was in a daze that lasted about a week. No matter how you prepare or what you expect to hear, when a doctor tells you that you have cancer, it’s a shock. Questions were racing through my mind: What will life be like now? How will things change? What will happen to me?

As I began to take steps toward deciding on my treatment, many options were presented to me. The urologist who diagnosed me recommended prostate removal. But he also gave me a book of 101 questions about prostate cancer and referred me to two other doctors at different facilities.

At the end of those consultations, I had several options to consider. I could simply watch and wait, because the cancer constituted just 25 percent of one sample. I could have surgery to remove my prostate. I could have external radiation or internal radiation. Or I could have cryotherapy, which was available at one regional facility.

All of these options gave me a lot to think about. The situation wasn’t urgent because the cancer was in an early stage, which was fortunate for two reasons. First, I needed time to weigh the pros and cons of these approaches. Second, it was summertime, prime fishing season, and I didn’t want to miss it.

I decided I would not pursue any treatment until the fall so I would not have to miss all the great fishing, and so I could be thorough with my research.

It was during those weeks of my research I came across Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA). One of my main concerns after hearing my diagnosis was what condition I would be in physically after treatment. I am in good shape and enjoy exercising, and I was worried I would not be able to be active in the same way. I wanted a holistic view of cancer treatment. I wondered if there were dietary changes I could make during radiation treatment. Were there supplements that would help my body withstand the treatment too? What else could I do in addition to the medical care that might help? The website for CTCA presented that kind of whole-body view, so I decided to find out if it was for real.

I traveled to the CTCA hospital near Atlanta in early August 2013. From the moment I arrived, the facility exceeded my expectations. I had never been to a hospital like it before. Even though it is a cancer center, CTCA felt like a place where people come to be well, not a place where people come to be sick.

My care team was very informative about my medical options and care. They even addressed my questions about nutrition and my overall well-being. There was no pressure for me to commit to being treated there. The doctors I spoke with were truly concerned about my health.

Dr. Cavanaugh, who recommended radioactive seed implants, also known as high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy or internal radiation, took the time to show me the seeds so I could better understand exactly how the procedure worked. He also explained the potential side effects.

I chose to have brachytherapy treatment at CTCA. My daughter and wife traveled with me to Atlanta for the treatment. I stayed at CTCA and they stayed at a nearby hotel. They were given caregiver IDs that enabled them to have meals at a discounted price. They were also able to take advantage of other services offered at the hospital. They were with me just before the procedure and were kept notified of my status while I was under anesthesia.

Our stay was nothing but pleasant. We all enjoyed the food at the hospital, which was wonderful. Everything was in one place, and CTCA had so much to offer during our stay: computers, a chapel, books, a pool table, etc. I especially loved the white boards that hang outside the hospital rooms where people write inspirational sayings. It’s such a nice touch that adds to the sense you are in a place of healing.

My side effects were minimal, just some minor indigestion. For the first week or so after treatment, I had discomfort that required me to rest and not be too active. But after that, I was back to my usual lifestyle. A couple of weeks after the seed implant, I was painting the house.

Even though cancer treatment barely made a dent in my lifestyle, I am a different person today. Being diagnosed with cancer is fearful. What will tomorrow bring? I made sure my life insurance was up to date because you just never know. Being diagnosed with cancer forces you to consider such issues.

Now I know there is life after cancer. I am going to be OK. And in fact, I am more than OK, maybe even better than before. The little annoyances that used to get to me don’t affect me so much anymore. I have a different, better perspective on what is truly important in life, and what is not. So even though cancer changed nothing about my lifestyle, it changed everything about how I experience life.

I was first diagnosed with cancer in May 2004. I went to see a local urologist and he found a tumor between my kidney and bladder. He diagnosed me with stage III transitional cell carcinoma (a type of bladder cancer) and recommended surgery to remove the tumor. I followed his advice, had surgery, and did not pursue any additional treatment.

Soon after the surgery, I started having pain in my left hip and leg. I kept going back to my doctor and he kept telling me that everything was fine. He told me that all of the cancer had been removed. However, the pain continued for a year and a half. It finally got so bad that I couldn’t sleep.

In January 2006, I learned the tumor had come back and the cancer had spread into my hip bone and abdomen. By that time, I had stage IV transitional cell carcinoma. It turns out the cancer had escaped into my bloodstream during the first surgery and proliferated during the 18 months since then. The cancer that was originally contained in a single small tumor had spread to multiple parts of my body. The pain I’d been feeling was the cancer in my left hip bone.

I had cancer all over the place and my doctor said it was inoperable. He told me to get my will in order. I was 34 years old.

My mom had seen a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). We went online on a Tuesday, spoke with someone that day, and by Friday, I had an appointment. I went to CTCA at Southwestern Regional Medical Center in Tulsa in early February 2006, and by the following week I was starting treatment.

Unlike any of the doctors I’d seen before, my oncologist, Dr. Shrestha, talked with me as if she knew exactly how to treat this cancer. The type of cancer I had was extremely rare, so it was challenging for even the most experienced cancer doctors. Dr. Shrestha was professional and confident with me from the start. Never once did she tell me my cancer wasn’t treatable. At that time, I could hardly express how much I appreciated her approach, after so many doctors had told me to go home and prepare to die.

I had 35 radiation treatments over the next seven weeks, plus seven rounds of chemotherapy every Monday. My wife, Tami, traveled and stayed with me at the hospital for every treatment. I was able to schedule my radiation treatment for early in the morning on Wednesdays and later in the afternoon on Thursdays, so I could drive home for the night and see my kids, Christopher and Chelsi. The flexibility was wonderful. I also spent weekends at home, which allowed me to keep our kids’ home life as normal as possible.

During my time at the hospital, I worked closely with my nutritionist, naturopathic clinician and pain management specialist. My nutritionist helped me keep my weight up and monitored my blood work. If my counts were low, she would bring me protein shakes to keep me strong. My naturopathic clinician gave me supplements to support my immune system, like green tea and vitamin C. My pain management specialist, Dr. Axness, made sure my pain was taken care of as much as possible.

After the initial round of treatment, I took one month off. Then I had a final round of six, high-dose chemotherapy treatments, delivered every three weeks. Just before the last treatment, we took a PET scan and it showed that I was cancer-free. We went ahead and did the final treatment anyway, and I had no additional surgery.

I’ve been officially cancer-free since September 2006. Along the way, I had so many negative people telling me there was no hope. My local doctors told me I had one year to live and that there was nothing they could do for me. It was very hard to hear that, but here I am at 38 years old and I have my life.

Nowadays, I don’t get nearly as worked up about things as I used to. I look at life, my friends and especially my family so different after a diagnosis like mine. Being told I was going to die made me sit back and think about all of the things I hadn’t done, especially with my kids. I still work and have a busy life most of the time, but I also stop and spend more time with my kids. I’m trying to stay active and eat better, too.

Without my wife, I couldn’t have made it. She was there for every doctor’s visit and every treatment. We own a freight brokerage business and she had to handle the bulk of that, as well as raise our two kids while I was sick. It’s amazing what she was able to accomplish. I feel like a lucky man to have her every day.

I still return to CTCA at Southwestern every three months for a PET scan and things remain clear. Dr. Shrestha tells me to go home and enjoy my life. It made a big difference for me to have a doctor who was positive and focused on options. The doctors at CTCA said it straight from the start: We don’t have a magic pill to make your cancer go away, but we do have treatments and clinicians to help extend your life and give you a chance. And hands-down, it was the best treatment for me.

I’ve had annual mammograms since I was 40 years old. In February 2014, at age 58, I was told by the pathologists at my local imaging center that something didn’t look right on my mammogram: my scans were abnormal. So, I went to see my gynecologist, who directed me to my primary care physician for further evaluation. My primary care physician in turn scheduled me to have a biopsy and ultrasound at the hospital near our home in Olathe, Kansas. I had two biopsies and then went back to see my primary care physician. She made an appointment for me with an oncologist.

The oncologist told me that the biopsy tested positive for breast cancer in my right breast.  I was surprised because I couldn’t see it or feel it, and there is no history of cancer in my family. She explained that I had triple-negative breast cancer, an aggressive subtype of the disease that progresses rapidly and is common among African American women. She told me that the recommended treatment for this type of cancer included chemotherapy, radiation and surgery and that I could choose the order in which I wanted to receive them, but I needed to make a decision quickly. I met with another oncologist for a second opinion and received the same advice, only an MRI and another ultrasound were also recommended.

When I was initially diagnosed, my husband, Nathan, wanted me to go to Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) for a consultation. I wasn’t ready for that at the time. I knew that I needed to be treated somewhere that accepted my insurance, and I wasn’t sure about traveling four hours each time for treatments.

At the hospital where I had the additional MRI and ultrasound, I started wondering where I should be treated next and whether I should seek a third opinion. That’s when I decided to call CTCA®. When I found out my insurance was accepted, I decided to go for an initial consultation. I was already scheduled to have a chemotherapy port implanted at my local hospital, so I proceeded with that. When the procedure left me in discomfort, I started looking forward even more to seeing what CTCA had to offer. We were on our way there the next day.

The moment my husband and I arrived, we felt the difference. We felt special, like they were rolling out the red carpet for us. Someone came to take our luggage from the car and brought it to our room. I was placed in a wheelchair. Our car was parked. There was nothing extra for us to think about. I didn’t feel like a cancer patient. I was treated as though I were a member of their family.

At CTCA, I underwent a lumpectomy followed by 12 cycles of chemotherapy. We traveled for each infusion and I was home for a few weeks between treatments.

By recommendation from CTCA, I am now undergoing radiation treatment at my local hospital, under the care of a renowned radiologist. This way, we do not have to be away from home or our church where my husband serves as Senior Pastor. I trust my care team at CTCA and will be returning every six months for follow-up-visits.

I was fortunate to have the best caregiver in the world: my husband. He came to all of my appointments, kept a journal of all my medications and vital sign measurements. He knew what to do when I experienced different side effects, and knew what information to record so we could report back to the doctor at my next appointment. He gave me my ten pills in the morning, my ten pills at night and my protein shake during the day. He was there for me, no matter what I needed – and CTCA was there for him. He had access to the chiropractic services and pressure-point massages. During my appointments, he also spent time with a CTCA pastor, who helped us start a cancer ministry at our church.

I am recovering very well from my treatments. The neuropathy is fading and my energy is returning. I am able to go the gym and work out, travel and spend time with our eleven grandchildren and five great grandchildren.

Several years ago, I retired from my job as an electronic technician with Honeywell and began a new chapter in my life. Today, I have returned to that chapter, doing all of the activities I was before cancer treatment: singing with our church, facilitating a prayer conference call every Wednesday morning, serving as president of a local Ministers Wives & Widows Ministry, and supporting youth in our community, just to name a few. I am also returning to school to obtain a bachelor degree in Christian counseling.

I also enjoy volunteering with the Cancer Fighters® Care Net at CTCA. It is great to be able to pass on what I have learned, which is to obtain as many opinions as you need and take care of yourself. It’s your body and you get to decide, no matter what anyone tells you.

I’ve been blessed, and I will always tell everyone to consider CTCA. I don’t know how I would have gotten through these months of treatment without the people looking after me there as if I were a member of their family.

My first bout with cancer was in 2008, when I was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. I made it through treatment successfully, finished up in April 2009, and was very relieved to have that chapter of my life behind me.

In early 2010, I began feeling fatigued. By summer, I started to notice chains of lumps popping up on my neck. I thought perhaps my body was fighting an infection. After making it through one cancer diagnosis, I was in denial about the possibility of facing another. I went to a local hospital where the doctors said that I was not having a recurrence of ovarian cancer. The doctors there put me on “watch and wait” status, suggesting that I monitor the lumps for now.

The lumps came and went during the following months. I was feeling okay; not great, somewhat fatigued, but not really sick. In late October 2010, I began feeling pain in my left side, under my ribs. It increased over several days, finally reaching the point where I had to leave work. I came home and tried resting for a few minutes, but the pain became unbearable.

My husband took me to the emergency room at our local hospital in New Jersey. A CT scan proved that my spleen was enlarged and they needed to conduct more tests, so I was admitted in the hospital. I had surgery to remove a lymph node from my armpit, blood work, X-rays, and a spinal tap. After six days, they released me and the oncologist told me he would call at the end of the week to confirm whether my diagnosis was what they suspected: follicular lymphoma. Indeed, the tests revealed exactly that. I was 56 years old and meeting cancer face to face for the second time.

When I was treated for ovarian cancer in December 2008, I felt like I was just another cancer patient passing through. The treatment was fine—it conquered the cancer—but the care wasn’t personal. Everyone there was nice, but there was something missing. At that time, I thought that if I ever became seriously ill again that I would go somewhere else.

After being discharged from the hospital in October of 2010, I knew I had to find a new doctor at a new facility. The previous hospital that had put me on “watch and wait” status wasn’t what I wanted, either. I prayed about what to do and where to go for the best care. Shortly after, I turned on the television and a commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America was being aired. Could this be the answer to my prayers? I jotted down the phone number and called immediately. I spoke with Lisa, Oncology Information Specialist at the CTCA location in Chicago, for at least an hour. She was so wonderful and made arrangements for my initial visit to CTCA’s Eastern Regional Medical Center in Philadelphia.

In less than a week, my husband, Jimmy, and I arrived at CTCA. We received warm greetings from everyone we met with. We felt from the moment we were greeted at the doorway of CTCA that this is the place where we needed to be. I went through three days of necessary medical tests, scans, etc. and met with my oncologist. She went over the recommendation and plan to get me better. I was scheduled for my first infusion of chemo to battle the cancer.

In so many ways, the care I received at CTCA was just what I needed.

Since my level of CA-125 was escalated, treatment began with a drug to address that issue. As my CA-125 level started to return to normal, it was time to begin chemotherapy for follicular lymphoma. My oncologist wanted me to have aggressive chemotherapy. We talked about what my greatest fear was and I explained that I was afraid to get chemo again and to have to endure the many side effects that go along with it, including loss of hair. This may seem vain, but after going through hair loss with ovarian cancer treatment, this side effect was something I was not looking forward to. Hair grows back of course, and getting healthy is the most important thing, but the experience can be upsetting. My doctor researched options, met with the oncology team at CTCA, and found a chemotherapy drug that would not cause hair loss. I was so impressed with the lengths she went to in order to address my concern.

My naturopathic doctor, Michelle Niesley, recommended ways to keep my energy levels up during treatment. A nutritionist recommended the right foods to eat and those to avoid. Also, to help reduce stress, I had massage therapy, chiropractic adjustments, and met frequently with a pastor on staff, Rev. Robin Childs. Robin would seek us out to pray before I had my chemotherapy infusions. That truly meant a lot to us. I firmly believe that all of these individuals and the care they offered played a significant role in my recovery. When my regular oncologist was on vacation, the doctor filling in for her, Dr. Rudolph Willis, met with us. Dr. Willis kindly greeted us, looked me in the eye, told me he knows all the details of my medical history, and assured me that my cancer is curable. I could sense his sincerity. What a difference that all made for me!

The happy and positive environment at CTCA also makes a huge difference. It offers a peaceful, nurturing environment. The chefs prepare meals that are healthy and delicious. A harpist plays her instrument in the waiting area. A pianist taps the keys on the piano, while the flutist accompanies him. An artist sketches caricatures for those interested. Mr. Brown, the “Puzzle Man” keeps patients entertained with his puzzles and wit. The whole facility is designed to make you feel at ease and help a sick person become well again. Everything offered at CTCA is geared to reduce the levels of stress, anxiety and depression. The whole person is considered—body, mind and spirit. It is a happy place, indeed.

I completed chemotherapy treatments for follicular lymphoma April 2, 2011. My spleen returned to normal size, and there are no visible signs of cancer in my diagnostic scans. I am not in pain, and I am back to the active lifestyle that my husband and I enjoy—traveling, experiencing nature, walking on the beach, and serving in our local church. We enjoy spending time with our family and my 91-year-old dad.

It’s now five years since I was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and three years since I was diagnosed with follicular lymphoma. Physically, I feel better than I have ever felt in my life. My current follow-up visits are simply check-ups to make sure everything is still fine. As a two-time cancer survivor, I am very grateful for good health, and speaking with newly diagnosed patients through Cancer Fighters CareNet is a way for me to give back. At CTCA, there were so many people rooting for me to get well. Being one more person cheering on others has been extremely rewarding. I have made friendships with people that otherwise I would have never met.

The experiences with cancer that I have been through opened up a door in myself that enables me to minister to others battling sickness. In addition to working with the Cancer Fighters Network, I also started a women’s visitation ministry at my church. Our team visits women who are seriously ill and confined to a hospital bed or their homes.

When other victims of cancer hear that I have been through cancer twice and survived, it gives them hope. I often tell people that a cancer diagnosis does not have to be a death sentence, and coping with it is all about maintaining a positive attitude and also trying to have a sense of humor. It’s true that not everyone survives, but that doesn’t mean that you’re not going to. CTCA has the tools to help you through.

In February, 2012, ten months after I finished treatment, my husband and I were privileged to travel with our church family to Israel, a place we had always dreamed of visiting. Just a year earlier I was sitting in a chair at CTCA, receiving chemotherapy drugs in my veins, and now I was riding a camel on the Mount of Olives! While in Israel, we visited The Church of the Beatitudes, overlooking the beautiful Sea of Galilee. Our pastor handed me his Bible and asked me to read the Beatitudes from the Book of Matthew, right there in the exact spot where they were spoken the first time 2000 years ago by Jesus Christ! What a gift.

When Ginnie was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2008, I remember being at our local hospital waiting to hear from the doctor. She was having a hysterectomy and my sister-in-law, Irene, and I were anxiously waiting to hear the result. Finally the doctor arrived and called me over. He told me that he found ovarian cancer, and they had removed everything, she would need to get chemo, but she’d be fine. Then he walked away. I couldn’t understand how he could just deliver that news and then depart so quickly. We were devastated by that news. Ginnie went through chemotherapy, and it was a difficult experience. The drugs were powerful. She endured several side effects, which were difficult to watch her go through. It was a hard time in our lives.

In 2010, when Ginnie was diagnosed with follicular lymphoma, she was in the hospital for 6 days. On the last day, after several rounds of diagnostic tests, the doctor told us tests are showing she has follicular lymphoma and would phone her end of week to confirm. The results were confirmed and he instructed her to call his office on Monday to get set up with a schedule to receive chemotherapy treatments.

Our hearts sank. We didn’t know what to do after that. Was there a place where she could be treated as a person and not feel like just another anonymous patient with a disease? Our church family was praying for us and we gave it all to God. Finally, our prayers were answered. Ginnie called CTCA and it was nothing but great after that. We finally had a chance of hope for her recovery.

I still remember walking into the CTCA hospital for the first time. Anytime you go somewhere for this kind of situation, it is stressful. We walked in wondering if it really would be different than the other three hospitals we’d been to. We quickly realized this was a different kind of hospital. When we arrived for the first time that November morning, the security guard told us we were early for our appointment and gave us passes to the cafeteria for breakfast. From the start, we could see that everyone wanted to help us. The people who work at CTCA are very special. They are genuine. Our first day there, we knew we were in the right place.

Today I work as part of the security team at a local hospital and I am always speaking with people there about CTCA. I love going there, it’s a unique place. Everything is always sparking clean. The food is exceptional. I was given a behind-the-scenes tour of the facility, and could see the thoughtfulness and extra attention that had gone into every area of the building. And most importantly, the doctors listen to our questions and take the time to answer them. We are always welcomed with open arms and have developed wonderful friendships. I wish I could list everyone who has touched us in a special way.

Although I would have taken off work to be with Ginnie through her treatments, it happened to be that I’d lost my job during a corporate takeover, so I could give her all the time she needed. I was with Ginnie at every visit, for every treatment. I am always with her for follow up visits. I knew what she’d gone through with ovarian cancer, and I was determined to be there for her.

CTCA included me as part of the team caring for my wife. Her doctor and others who had a part in her care went above and beyond to make sure that all my questions were addressed and that I was on board with any decisions being made about her care.

But what I have also learned as a caregiver is that you don’t necessarily need to do anything special to help your loved one through cancer treatment. You just need to be there.

When I was 46 years old, I began experiencing pain that I thought was due to a hemorrhoid. The discomfort became so severe that I couldn’t sit straight and had to lean to the side instead. There was itching and bleeding—all the typical signs of a hemorrhoid, the swelling and inflammation in the rectal region that so many of us experience at some point in our lives

I made an appointment with my primary care physician, who also thought the symptoms were due to hemorrhoids. He referred me to a gastroenterologist, who would be able to more carefully examine my colon.

Even at the initial exam, the specialist knew something was wrong. The doctor conducted a physical exam and scheduled the colonoscopy for 48 hours later.

The results of that test confirmed my worst fear: I had cancer.

Once he delivered my diagnosis, the gastroenterologist was anxious for me to meet with an oncologist and a radiologist at a regional hospital. As he was speaking, I was thinking about all the people I’d known who had been treated for cancer and had a rough time. I didn’t want to rush into any decision about my care.

I had seen commercials for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA) and decided to call. We live nearby the Tulsa location, so it made sense to at least inquire about their services. The fact that all aspects of care are provided under one roof and that nutrition and other matters are taken into account during treatment appealed to me.

When I arrived at CTCA, my first thought was that it looked more like a hotel than a hospital—and that was how it felt inside, too. Everyone I met was friendly, including patients who were clearly going through rigorous treatment. I turned to my husband and said, “Something RIGHT must be happening here.”

My treatment entailed 30 rounds of radiation, given once a day, Monday through Friday, and then chemotherapy. I received 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin, administered one after the other, followed by a two-week break and then one more round of 5-fluorouracil.

My quality of life did not falter too much during treatment. It wasn't until close to the end of the therapies that I began to feel the side effects. I was able to drive myself to the hospital every day until about the last week of treatment. My skin did not burn, as sometimes happens with radiation, though I continued to follow the recommendations from my care team about using lotions and ointments to protect my skin. Because the radiation was administered to the groin area, I did experience some discomfort with urination and bowel movements, but the problems were not severe.

My care team supported me throughout my journey. As long as I was willing to work on getting better, they were always behind me. They never discouraged my efforts or comments, never suggested for me to stop treatment, nor did they ever give up. And when I wanted to reduce the amount of pain medication I was taking, they supported that decision. What works for one person doesn’t necessarily work for another, and my care team understood that and embodied that in their approach.  

When I did start to feel a little downtrodden about the illness, I just kept in mind that I was near the end. But it was my family that really kept me motivated. They reminded me about how far I’d come and that I just needed to make it a little further to the other side.

The people I met on the CTCA staff, from the doctors to the valets, were very compassionate. They knew our names and they were always ready with a hug. That compassion made such a difference to me. My daughter and husband sometimes accompanied me on my visits and their questions were always answered thoroughly and thoughtfully.

Today I am feeling well. I was experiencing some muscle pains in the pelvic floor due to the radiation that has been reduced with an antidepressant that also helps with chronic musculoskeletal pain. I also need to be watchful about arthritis after the radiation treatment.

I went on leave from my job in sales when my treatment started and was not strong enough to return after it was completed. However, I’ve decided to pursue a new career course, which is an exciting turn of events for me. My family is very encouraging about it, which makes it easier to try something new. I have been able to resume the activities I have always enjoyed, like going to the beach, reading and home improvement projects.

And my husband and I have found time to celebrate life after cancer. We treated ourselves to a vacation in Mexico, and enjoy every minute we get to spend with our family and three grandchildren.

For many years, I was going for a prostate screening every other year at our local hospital. In 2012, when I was 59 years old, the screening test showed that my prostate specific antigen (PSA) score had doubled since my previous exam.

The test results came as a complete surprise. Dozens of men come to the hospital at the same time for screening sessions, and a nurse provided information to everyone at the same time. It felt like I was going through the motions. I was not expecting to have any result other than the normal one. I had no symptoms and would never have expected that I would be the one among those dozens of men.

The hospital’s screening clinic is run in conjunction with a local urology team, so I went to that practice for a biopsy. The urologist who did the biopsy told me that the results were positive for prostate cancer. Then, he told my wife, Linda, and I that my treatment options were surgery or radiation with seed implants. I had just been diagnosed with cancer, and we wanted at least a weekend to absorb the news and consider our options.

We have three sons, and we got together the following weekend to tell them the news. One of our sons had just started working at Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), and he encouraged us to at least call to speak with someone about my diagnosis and treatment options.

So we did. I spoke with an Oncology Information Specialist (OIS), and we clicked right away. He was compassionate, understanding and patient. He took my insurance information and told me he would be back in touch by the following afternoon to let me know if our insurance would cover my visit. He called the next day as promised, and we scheduled a visit beginning that week.

At CTCA®, we met with a surgeon and a radiation oncologist. Both doctors explained my treatment options, which included seven different possible approaches. What struck me even more than all the options, though, was how the doctors were neutral about each one. No one was trying to persuade me about which route to take.

I decided to have minimally invasive robotic surgery. This was uncharted territory for me; I had never had an operation before. But my surgeon and his team did a wonderful job. I was walking by the next night.

There were some side effects to get through afterwards. The surgery can impair bladder control for a time, for example. But two years later, that problem has become manageable. I still have a minimal amount of leakage when I cough, sneeze or stretch. I have learned to be aware of my situation. My care team instructed me on exercises to strengthen the muscles, and gradually those exercises just became part of my everyday routine, and I still do them to this day. Sexual function was also impaired for a time, but again, my care team helped guide me through possible ways to address the problem.

When I consider what others go through with cancer, I know my journey was not so arduous. And when I did feel a little sad for myself and wondered, Why me? my very wise caregiver—my wife—was there to point out, Why not me? Do other people deserve cancer more than I do? Of course not. Her perspective helped snap me out of my depression so I could just get on with my treatment and recovery.

I have been fortunate in so many ways. I was lucky enough to have a family member encourage me to get a second opinion, something I now advise for anyone newly diagnosed with cancer. And now I have many years ahead with our family, including our many grandchildren and great-grandchildren. In the summer of 2017, I was fortunate to be included in the CTCA program Celebrate Life®, which honors five-year cancer survivors. It was so special to have Linda and our three sons there to celebrate with me. It was very emotional for me, because the first day I walked into the CTCA lobby, I told Linda that someday, I’m going to be on that tree. We often ask, “Why me?” when things are bad, but not so often when things are good. Today, I look at my family and my wife who supported me through this time and think, Why not me?

I was so surprised the day Walt came home from his screening exam and told me he needed to have a biopsy. But I wasn’t overly concerned because his PSA score was still quite low and within a normal range.

Once we got to CTCA, we learned there were many options that Walt could consider. Just as the urologist had done, the surgeon and radiation oncologist told Walt that, of course, it was his choice. But this time, we were given the time to ask questions. The doctors wanted to make sure he had all the information he needed in order to make his decision.

I agreed with Walt’s decision to pursue robotic surgery. I knew he was concerned that radiation could have a longer recovery time that would keep him away from work. The approach he chose was associated with the shortest recovery time.

Walt did have some side effects, but his care team members helped however they could. At CTCA, they helped Walt with many things. If something became impaired from treatment, they helped Walt restore that function if they could. It is all about the patient. When we walked in, we were greeted like we were special. We had their undivided attention. The care and kindness are genuine.

Walt was up and about quickly after surgery. As his caregiver, I had a hard time only with keeping him off his feet for longer than he wanted. He would feel down sometimes, and I would keep him focused on the bright side. Once the catheter was removed, his physical recovery was minimal.

I’m so relieved that our son encouraged us to seek a second opinion at CTCA. Walt is doing great, and we have returned to life as usual: being with our children and grandchildren and enjoying life together.

Since Walt completed treatment, he has retired, we have celebrated Walt’s 64th birthday, and we have gone to Alaska, Savannah, Georgia; and most recently to Nashville. But more importantly, we have two more grandchildren and another on the way, and have also been blessed with two great-grandchildren. We are very fortunate indeed.

Thanksgiving Day of 2011 was the first big turning point in my fight with cancer. I was sitting at the dinner table with my wife, Linda, and our two sons, when I couldn’t even swallow a sip of water, let alone get the turkey down.

I was scared. Five years earlier, I had gone to a hospital near my home in Colorado with a painful spider bite on my leg. The doctor noticed the swelling on my neck and felt around my glands and throat. I thought it was strange that he was focused more on my neck than the spider bite. I think she knew when she looked at me that I had a problem.

Days later I learned that my problem was cancer. I was sent to a cancer hospital, where I was diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The doctor said I had the disease for a while and said we were going to “watch and wait” to see how things progressed. I told him I didn’t want to wait. I didn’t want to watch, either. I wanted to get better.

I went for a second opinion and it was pretty much the same. So I stopped going to cancer doctors because the ones I had met up to that point didn’t do anything for me. I mean, I wouldn’t take my car to a mechanic if he couldn’t fix it, either.

On Thanksgiving of 2011, the day I couldn’t swallow, I saw a television commercial for Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA). I got up from the table and made the call. I said to my wife, what have I got to lose?

I told the woman on the phone about my diagnosis in 2006 and she asked if I wanted to talk to a CTCA® patient who had a similar cancer as mine. I did. My conversation with this patient – especially hearing about how she was treated at CTCA – cemented my decision. I was going to CTCA for treatment.

Within a few days, I was on a plane to Phoenix for my first visit to the hospital in Goodyear, Arizona. A limo driver greeted me at the airport and took me straight to the hospital.

My first impression? I couldn’t even believe it was a hospital. It didn’t smell like a hospital, and everyone treated me so good from the moment I walked through the door. When I got to the front desk, I got a schedule of everything I would be doing over the next five days, from blood tests to CT scans to tests I had never heard of. I was surprised how easy everything was made for me. It was like clockwork.

Those five years without treatment were five years of nothing but stress from the time I woke up in the morning to the time I went to bed at night. Coming to CTCA cut down on my stress.

In early December, I had my first round of chemotherapy. The doctors on my care team came up with a combination of two chemotherapy drugs that a recent study showed would be better than traditional chemotherapy. I felt like I was getting the most advanced treatment possible for my cancer.

My first treatment was over two days: eight hours on the first day and four hours on the second, followed by a shot to help build up my blood cells. With the swelling in my neck down, I was feeling good.

Now, don’t get me wrong, I was in pain after my first treatment. In fact, I was feeling pretty beat up, my bones especially. But it didn’t last long. One of the great things about CTCA is that you have a whole team of doctors and clinicians who can handle anything that comes up.

During my treatment, I saw a naturopathic physician, a nutritionist and a physical therapist. I had acupuncture and massage therapy to help with the pain of treatment and with my arthritis. I took supplements to reduce inflammation and fatigue. These therapies worked hand in hand, helping with the healing process.

My wife, Linda, liked the holistic care we both got at CTCA. She describes it as healing for your body, mind and spirit. I’ve been married to Linda for most of my life so it’s important to me that she gets treated right, too. As my caregiver, Linda was able to get massages and get her hair and nails done. She called coming to CTCA her spa vacation.

At CTCA, it really felt like Linda and I were important. None of the clinicians ever said, this is what I’m doing and when I’m going to do it. Instead, they would say, this is what I’d like to do for you. What do you think? They didn’t force anything on us. Linda and I made the final decision on every treatment.

When I met Dr. Niu the first time, he spent at least 30 minutes with me, going over a comprehensive plan for my treatment and including me at every step along the way. I felt real comfortable with him because he took the time to explain everything and answer every question Linda and I had.

Dr. Niu told me I would need four or five treatments, six at the most. It worked out just as he said. I feel much better these days. In fact, it’s been a long time since I’ve felt as good as I do now. I’ve got a lot of energy, a lot of hope and a new outlook on life.

My husband and I live about 25 miles southwest of Denver. We moved here from Ohio in 2002. Over the course of that first year, Wayne, who was about 56 at the time, was having a hard time breathing. He had bronchitis when we’d first moved, and we figured that plus the oxygen changes living at a higher elevation were responsible for his labored breathing. He was always tired, and would often fall asleep in the middle of the day, which he’d never done before. Still, we never thought much of it.

Then one day, he got a spider bite while he was unloading boxes in the garage. His leg swelled and was sore to the touch. Even his pants touching his leg was painful. It was a weekend so we went to the emergency room at the hospital across the street from us. The doctor examined the bite and the swelling, and was also feeling my husband’s neck. We weren’t sure why, but could see she was concerned about something she noticed there. She told Wayne to see our family doctor the next day about the spider bite.

The next day, our family doctor started feeling Wayne’s neck, too. It had swollen so gradually that we hadn’t even noticed. He went for blood tests, and our doctor gave us the name of a medical center where we needed to go to get the results of the test.

When we arrived at that medical center, we saw the word “cancer” on the outside. Inside, we could see that there were many people there who were very ill. We went to the check-in desk certain that we were in the wrong place. We just need the results of a blood test, we explained. We were assured that we were in the right place. Soon enough, we were brought to meet a doctor, who told us that, just going by my husband’s blood counts, he was fairly certain that he had chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and that it would probably end his life. This moment was how we found out that Wayne had cancer.

My sister, who is a nurse, urged us to get a second opinion, so we traveled to another cancer center. When we finally got to our appointment, the diagnosis was confirmed as chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Again, we were told there was nothing that could be done. The doctor there suggested consulting with a nutritionist, which we did, but beyond that, the only thing to do was wait.

Wayne went five years without treatment. By November of 2011, his lymph nodes had become so swollen that he could barely swallow. He was scared. He saw a commercial for CTCA and decided to call, really because he felt he had nothing to lose. That was on Thanksgiving day. Arrangements for his visit were made almost immediately—the flight, the hotel, the doctors. For the first time, we didn’t feel alone.

Wayne had chemotherapy at CTCA, with fortunately very few side effects. It was the injected medication that helps build up white blood cell counts, delivered after the chemotherapy, which caused the most pain. But even that was just a day of aching. He did feel tired, but he was tired anyway, so that was not a bother.

As a caregiver, I found all the information provided to us at CTCA to be enormously helpful. You can always spot the new patients there because they are carrying around a briefcase. Those briefcases are filled with cards from each doctor, with their photograph and contact information, along with all the educational materials we needed. The Cancer Fighters Care Network also proved a wonderful resource for information.

My job was to get my husband where he needed to be and when he needed to be there. While he was having chemotherapy, I would meet with an administrator to arrange his treatment schedule, making sure it was coordinated with the time I could take off from my work. CTCA made it easy. The hardest thing was making sure we got to the airport on time.

Today my husband is doing wonderfully. He has more energy than I do. His spirits are so high. A huge weight was lifted from our lives when we got to CTCA. Just to hear someone offer him some kind of help and hope—that made all the difference.

As a caregiver, I’ve learned that one of the best things I can do is homework. I had to find out the information because sometimes my husband just didn’t want to know. Traveling with him for all his appointments was important, too. Harsh treatments can leave people confused, and cancer is scary. Patients often need someone else to remember, to organize, to ask questions.

And patients, in turn, need to not worry about putting on a brave face. Many of us are susceptible to suffering in silence, but that doesn’t really help. If you’re not feeling well, it’s okay to tell someone.

At CTCA, everything is about the patient. As a caregiver, I learned so much about what that means from the care team responsible for getting my husband well again. 